C H A P T E R  1
CHAPTER 1
10

PROLOGUE
CHAPTER 1
12
structure of the game
“Still, I wonder if we shall ever be put into songs or tales. We’re in one, of course;  
but I mean: put into words, you know, told by the fireside, or read out of a great 
big book with red and black letters, years and years afterwards.”
Story-­building is a fundamental component of The One Ring. 
It isn’t about hearing a story being told, but about creating 
it over the course of the game, as the result of the interac-
tion between the Lore­master and the Player-­heroes at the 
gaming table. 
To facilitate this creative interaction, gameplay in The One 
Ring is structured into two distinct phases: 
An Adventuring Phase, usually taking the largest part 
of a session, or even multiple sessions, and a closing 
Fellow­ship Phase, addressing in detail what in other 
games is often called ‘downtime’.
Following this structure, the gameplay will see the Player-­
heroes take part in a significant chain of events and follow 
them through to a conclusive resolution.
The Adventuring Phase and the Fellow­ship Phase are dis-
cussed in detail later on, respectively, in Chapter 6 and Chapter 
7. Here follows a summary of what they are about.
the adventuring phase
An Adventuring Phase session of play is played as a series of 
scenes, connected sequentially in a wider narrative arc. A 
scene is a single episode focusing on the Company, or part 
of it, facing some kind of challenge, preparing for one, or 
recovering from it. 
It is up to the Lore­master to initially frame each 
scene, especially those that are putting the Company 
in danger. 
To frame a scene, the Lore­master needs to first describe the 
location where the action is taking place, and who is there 
among the Player-­heroes and their potential adversaries 
or allies. Then, the Lore­master defines the challenge that 
the Company is facing, considering the perspective of each 
involved Player-­hero.
Once the Lore­master is done setting up the scene, 
the players proceed to describe how their characters 
react to the situation.
In particular, players need to choose what actions their Player-­
heroes take to investigate and resolve the challenge facing them. 
Players have full control over what their heroes do and how they 
do it, but it is the Lore­master that determines how every part of 
the world — from Lore­master characters to creatures and the 
environment — reacts to what the Player-­heroes do.
In general, to play out a scene and determine its conse­
quences, the Lore­master and the players need nothing 
more than common sense and the rules concerning 
Action Resolution described in Chapter 2. 
A notable exception are those scenes that require the appli-
cation of the rules for Combat, Council, or Journey — those 
rules are found starting from page 93.
THE PASSAGE OF TIME
Time passes at different rates in The One Ring: one 
evening spent playing may detail a single day in 
the life of an adventurer, or skim over a month or 
more of their career. 
During most Adventuring Phase sessions, 
gameplay is articulated in shorter, focused scenes 
that require players to describe in detail what they 
do. Time passes relatively slowly, with the players 
often keeping track of what happens every single 
day — with the exception of prolonged or time-­
consuming events, like journeys, or sieges.
Time passes more quickly during a Fellow­
ship Phase, when the Lore­master and the players 
adopt a broader approach to narration. This is best 
suited when dealing with endeavours that occur 
‘off-­screen’. Weeks or months may pass before a 
new Adventuring Phase begins, and a special type 
of Fellow­ship Phase (Yule, see page 120) also deals 
with the advancement of the chronology of the 
game: the Tale of Years.

PROLOGUE
13
the fellow­ship phase
When the Adventuring Phase is concluded, a Fellow­ship 
Phase starts with the players narrating what their characters 
do when they finally return from their adventuring to rest 
for a while. It is now the Lore­master’s turn to act reactively, 
by listening to their players’ propositions and wishes, and 
making sure that the rules are correctly applied.
During a Fellow­ship Phase, the players present to the 
Lore­master their ideas and intentions — for example, choos-
ing where they are going to rest, and deciding what they will 
do while they are there. 
During the Fellow­ship Phases, the players can choose 
one or more undertakings that let them perform down­
time activities, directly affecting the gameplay. 
tying it all together
Usually, an Adventuring Phase will last two or three sessions 
of play, followed by a Fellow­ship Phase wrapping up neatly 
what happened thus far in the adventure. 
After a few games, what happens in the two distinct phases 
of the game will become more and more closely interrelated: 
	
♦The events arising during the Adventuring Phase lead 
the players to make certain choices during the follow-
ing Fellow­ship Phase. 
	
♦In turn, the Lore­master will find it easy to tie the next 
Adventuring Phase into what happened during the 
previous Fellow­ship Phase. 
The final result is an epic that grows out of the ongoing 
lives of the Player-­heroes and their deeds.


C H A P T E R  2
ACTION  
RESOLUTION
Of the various burglarious proceedings he had heard of,  
picking the trolls’ pockets seemed the least difficult…

CHAPTER 2
16
s seen in the Prologue, a game session of The One 
Ring takes the form of a continuous conversation 
among the playing group. There are no turns, and 
the dialogue alternates between the Lore­master 
and the players who collaborate in bringing to 
life a series of scenes in which the Player-­heroes are the 
protagonists.
The main way for the players to participate in a scene 
is simple — all they have to do is to tell the Lore­
master what their Player-­heroes are doing, and how 
they intend to do it. In game terms, this statement of 
intent is called taking an action.
Once the players are done describing their chosen action, 
the Lore­master proceeds to evaluate whether to grant them 
what they want simply based on how they tried to achieve it, 
or if the circumstances require a die roll.
the one ring dice
The One Ring makes use of a specialised set of dice, including 
six 6-sided dice (also called Success Dice) and two 12-sided 
dice with two special icons (called the Feat Dice). 
Sold separately, The One Ring Dice Set contains exactly the 
right amount of dice for use with the game, but players may 
find it useful to bring some more as it will be more convenient 
for each player to have a set close at hand.
when to roll
To put it simply, the Lore­master should ask for a die roll only 
if there is a possibility that a player’s chosen action might fail. 
If the description of an action does not leave any doubts about 
its outcome, there’s no need to make a roll — the action suc-
ceeds automatically.
But this is not all there is to it: resorting to a roll should 
be considered exclusively if the action or its goal fall into one 
of the following instances:
1.	 DANGER — Roll if the action is dangerous.  
If the Player-­hero does not risk anything by failing, do 
not roll.
2.	 KNOWLEDGE — Roll if the action aims to obtain informa-
tion that is not immediately available.  
If the knowledge that the heroes are looking for is not 
secret or otherwise hidden, do not roll.
3.	 MANIPULATION — Roll if the action intends to influence 
one or more uncooperative Lore­master characters.  
If what the heroes ask of the Loremaster characters 
matches their own motives (see Chapter 9), do not roll.
scenes in brief
Breaking it down, scenes in The One Ring work as follows:
1.	 The Lore­master describes a situation requiring the 
players to make decisions.
2.	 The players investigate the situation, considering their 
options. Once decided, they choose their action and 
describe it to the Lore­master.
3.	 The Lore­master evaluates the plan of the players, and 
adjudicates whether to just ‘say yes’ and grant them 
what they want to achieve, or ask for a die roll.
More information about scenes is presented in Chapter 6: 
Adventuring Phases, and Chapter 8: The Lore­master, pages 92 
and 126, respectively.
USING YOUR OWN DICE
If you already have a set of regular dice you use for 
games, you can easily use them for The One Ring. 
Just remember that on the 12-sided Feat Dice, the 
11 is the Eye of Sauron symbol 
 and the 12 is a 
Gandalf rune . On the 6-sided Success Dice, the 
6 has an Elvish 
, which represents an additional 
level of success.

ACTION RESOLUTION
17
making rolls
In the end Bilbo won the game, more by luck (as it seemed) than by wits…
Once the necessity for a die roll has been established, it must 
be determined who is going to make the roll, and which abil-
ity is most appropriate for the action. 
who rolls
Determining who is going to make the roll is easy in the case of 
actions chosen by the players, but can be less so if the roll is being 
made as a reaction to something described by the Lore­master.
In general terms, it is highly advisable to have a single 
player make a roll, except when something involves everyone 
in the group. 
To do so, the players simply choose the Player-­hero 
who is best suited to the task at hand, eventually apply­
ing the rules for support (see Support, page 20). 
which ability
The ability to use depends mostly on the type of roll: 
	
♦Skill Rolls. By far the most common type of actions, 
Skill rolls are required whenever a Player-­hero 
attempts to do something that can be accomplished 
using one of the 18 Skills listed on a character sheet. 
	
♦Combat Rolls. When involved in a fight, the Player-­
heroes rely mostly on their Combat Proficiencies to 
make attack rolls, and on PROTECTION rolls to avoid 
being injured seriously when hit. 
	
♦Shadow Tests. The corrupting effect of the Shadow 
can be resisted by making VALOUR and WISDOM rolls, 
prompted by sources such as Dread, Sorcery, and Greed.
make the roll
Once the correct ability to be used has been determined, 
proceed to make the roll employing its numerical rating (all 
abilities that can be used to make a roll are given a value 
ranging from 1 to 6):
1.	 Roll one Feat Die, plus a number of Success Dice 
equal to the rating of the appropriate ability (roll only 
the Feat Die if the rating is zero). 
2.	 Add up the numerical results on all dice, comparing 
the total to the Target Number (TN) associated with 
the rolled ability. 
In general terms, if the rolled total is equal to or greater 
than the TN, the roll is a success; otherwise, it has failed — a 
successful roll indicates that the acting Player-­hero achieves 
their goal, while a failure means that something went wrong 
and that the desired goal was not achieved. 
Some rules state explicitly what happens in game terms in 
case of a failure or a success — combat, for example, or the 
rules for journeys — while other situations require creativity 
from the players and the Lore­master.
In any case, the consequences of both a successful and 
a failed roll always determine a well-­defined change in the 
gameplay (see Degree of Success on page 18 for more about 
assessing the outcome of a successful roll, and Chapter 8: The 
Lore­master, for additional rules on the consequences of failure).
repeating a roll
As a rule, players only have one attempt at anything that is 
resolved with a die roll — whether they succeed or fail, they 
have done their best.
As far as Skill rolls are concerned, if the Lore­master 
allows it, a failed action can be attempted again by 
the same Player-­hero if the failing Player-­hero tries 
again using a different Skill, effectively representing 
a different approach to the same problem.
Of course, a Player-­hero who is given a second chance must 
always cope with the consequences of having failed the first 
time… (see also the Consequences of Failure, on page 130).
how to read the feat dice
Each Feat Die shows numbers ranging from 1 to 10, and two 
special icons: a Gandalf rune ( ) and the Eye of Sauron (
). 
The two icons are normally read as follows:
	
♦The  rune is the greatest result you can get on a Feat 
Die. When the die comes up showing the  rune, the 
action succeeds regardless of whether the total result 
of the roll was enough to match or beat the TN or not.
	
♦The 
 icon is considered to be the worst result possi-
ble on a Feat Die. When the Feat Die comes up show-
ing the 
 icon, the Feat Die result counts as a zero.

CHAPTER 2
18
how to read 
the success dice
Success Dice are special 6-sided dice, customised to show the 
numbers 1, 2, and 3 in outline, and the numbers 4, 5, and 6 
in solid black. In addition, a Success icon — the Elvish symbol 
( ) — appears along with the number 6. Success Dice are 
always rolled together with a single Feat Die. 
Add the results on all Success Dice to the result of the 
Feat die, with any  icons rolled indicating a superior 
result on a success (see Degree of Success below). 
target numbers
All abilities used in the game are associated with a Target 
Number, a numerical value that the roll result must match 
or beat. 
Most rolls made by the Player-­heroes are made against 
three Attribute Target Numbers (Attribute TNs, for 
short), based on the ratings they have in STRENGTH, 
HEART, and WITS.
During character creation, the players generate three Target 
Numbers, one for each Attribute, putting a hero’s fundamen-
tal capabilities right in front of a player’s eyes. 
Each Attribute TN is equal to 20 minus its correspond­
ing Attribute score.
EXAMPLE: 
Scouting ahead for the Company, Hanar the Dwarf has a 
chance to notice a group of Goblins setting up an ambush. 
He has an AWARENESS Skill of 
 (2), so he rolls a Feat 
die plus two Success dice, adding up the results of all dice 
rolled. As AWARENESS is a STRENGTH Skill, the roll result 
is compared against Hanar’s STRENGTH TN, which is 13. 
With the Success dice showing 4 and 5, and the Feat Die an 
8, Hanar’s player does hardly need to do any maths to know 
that the Dwarf succeeded.
TWEAKING THE TARGET NUMBERS
Calculating TNs by subtracting the Attribute scores from 
20 results in difficulty thresholds that are appropriate to 
medium to long campaigns, as they present a challenge 
to inexperienced individuals, but hold up well as those 
same characters advance in proficiency. For shorter cam-
paigns or one-shot games the players and the Loremaster 
may agree to derive the TNs by subtracting their Attri-
butes from 18 instead.
degree of success
A roll result that achieves its Target Number (or results in 
the  rune) and produces one or more  icons is an out-
come of a superior quality — a musician performs partic-
ularly well, a look-­out spots enemies at a longer distance, 
an orator succeeds in galvanizing a larger audience. The 
greater the number of Success icons rolled, the better:
	
♦(—) If no  icons were scored, the action was success-
ful, but didn’t achieve anything beyond the bare mini-
mum (a success).
	
♦
 If a single  was scored, then the Player-­hero’s 
accomplishment was out of the ordinary (a great 
success).
	
♦
+ If two or more  icons were scored, the result was 
absolutely exceptional and memorable (an extraordi-
nary success).
SPECIAL SUCCESSES
When making Skill rolls, if a finer level of detail is desired, 
players can specify what their superior result means, by 
‘spending’ their rolled 
 icons to trigger a number of spe-
cial results:
For each 
 icon rolled, a Player-­hero can choose 
one of the options listed in the Skill Special Success 
table on the next page.
If a roll scores multiple Success icons, they are normally used 
to achieve multiple special results, such as assisting a fellow 
Player-­hero AND doing it silently. 
Note that ‘spending’ a Success icon does not detract 
from the numerical result of a roll, and does not reduce the 
overall success level — a great success remains such even 
when a Success icon is used to trigger a Special Success 
result.

ACTION RESOLUTION
19
SKILL SPECIAL SUCCESS TABLE:
SPEND 1 SUCCESS 
ICON TO…
DESCRIPTION
Cancel a Failure
If a Skill roll involves multiple players, you help another Player-­hero who failed; the failed roll is considered a 
success.
Score 1 Addi-
tional Success
If an action requires multiple successes to be achieved, you score 1 additional success. 
Gain insight
You gain additional information, not necessarily related to the task at hand. For example, while helping a 
sick individual with a HEALING roll you discover the trace of poison. Or you spot a sentry while sneaking 
into a ruin with a roll of STEALTH.
Go quietly
You achieve your goal noiselessly or without otherwise attracting attention.
Make haste
You complete the attempted task in a shorter time (about half the expected time).
Widen influence
You can influence more than the specific number of subjects originally targeted by the action. As a 
general rule, each Success icon spent corresponds to one additional subject or group of subjects. For 
example, following a roll of INSIGHT, you spot a second person acting suspiciously at an inn; a roll of 
ENHEARTEN aimed to affect half a dozen individuals allows you to influence a full dozen.

CHAPTER 2
20
die roll modifiers
Following are a number of variations upon the core rules of 
the game. They represent those advantages (and drawbacks!) 
that affect the Player-­heroes as the most explicit demonstra-
tion of their heroic stature.
FAVOURED ROLLS
A Favoured roll happens when a Player-­hero possesses a spe-
cial affinity for a task. 
When making a Favoured roll, players roll two Feat 
dice instead of one, keeping the best result among 
the two.
Typical sources of Favoured rolls are a Player-­hero’s Favoured 
Skills (see also Skills page 60), and several Cultural Virtues, 
abilities that set a hero’s capability beyond the usual reach 
(see Virtues, page 80).
ILL-­FAVOURED ROLLS
The opposite of a Favoured roll, a roll is made Ill-­favoured when 
a Player-­hero is suffering from some limitation.
When making an Ill-­favoured roll, players roll two Feat 
dice instead of one, keeping the worst result among 
the two.
Most often, the source of an Ill-­favoured roll comes from the 
adverse effects of the special ability of an adversary (see Adver-
saries, page 142), Madness (see Madness, page 139), or a Flaw 
possessed by the Player-­hero (see Using Flaws, page 141). 
BONUS SUCCESS DICE
It is possible for a Player-­hero to be attempting something 
under favourable circumstances, or employing a particularly 
beneficial talent. When this happens, the Player-­hero may 
be granted a bonus in the form of a number of additional 
Success Dice to roll.
Bonuses are indicated in the text as gain (1d) or more, 
meaning that Player-­heroes enjoying the modifier add 
1 Success die to those they are entitled to roll for the 
action.
Most commonly, bonus Success dice are gained by spending 
Hope, or as the effect of a number of Cultural Virtues. 
HOPE BONUS: A character’s Hope score is a pool of points 
representing the reserve of spiritual vigour that heroes draw 
from when confronted by difficult odds, or when a particu-
larly good result is required by the circumstances. 
A Player-­hero about to make a die roll can spend 1 
Hope point to gain (1d). 
Hope can be spent to gain dice on any roll made by a Player-­
hero. It is not possible to spend multiple Hope points to gain 
multiple bonus Success dice.
INSPIRATION: Certain circumstances may result in a Player-­
hero becoming temporarily Inspired. Inspired Player-­heroes 
double the benefit of spending a Hope point: 
An Inspired Player-­hero who spends 1 Hope point to 
get a Hope bonus gains (2d), instead of (1d).
Inspiration can be achieved mainly through the invocation 
of a Distinctive Feature (see page 67), or as the effect of a 
number of Cultural Virtues. 
Heroes appealing to their Hope too often must beware 
though, for they run the risk of depleting their spiritual ener-
gies and becoming Miserable (see Miserable on page 22. For 
more about Hope, see page 71).
SUPPORT: A Player-­hero may make an effort to help another 
member of the Company who is making a Skill roll. 
FAVOURED VS ILL-­FAVOURED: It is possible for 
a roll to be both Favoured and Ill-­favoured for 
different, conflicting reasons — when this hap-
pens, the roll is resolved normally (roll one Feat 
Die only), even if multiple sources would make 
a roll Favoured and only one would make it Ill-­
favoured (or vice versa).
ILL-­FAVOURED PLAYER-­HEROES: At times, an 
ability of an adversary or another special rule may 
directly make a Player-­hero Ill-­favoured, instead 
of specifying a particular roll — when this happens, 
the unlucky adventurer is considered Ill-­favoured 
on all rolls. For example, Player-­heroes whose 
Shadow score matches their maximum Hope are 
considered to be Ill-­favoured on all rolls.

ACTION RESOLUTION
21
To do so, the supporting character may spend 1 point 
of Hope to let the active Player-­hero gain (1d).
A Player-­hero may support another only if the circumstances 
allow it, and only if the supporting hero possesses at least 
one rank in an appropriate Skill. Whether a Skill is deemed 
appropriate to the supporting action is up to the Lore­master. 
Only one Player-­hero can spend Hope to support the active 
Player-­hero. 
EXAMPLE
A Hobbit burglar is trying to open a Dwarven door using 
her CRAFT 
 (2). Her Barding companion spends 1 point 
of Hope and provides advice on Dwarven mechanisms with 
his LORE Skill — the Lore­master approves and the Hobbit 
gains (1d) on her roll.
PENALTY SUCCESS DICE
Adventurers wish they were lucky enough to enjoy only favour-
able circumstances… At times, fortune seems to conspire 
against them, they may put themselves in danger by their own 
volition looking for a greater benefit, or they may have fallen 
victim to some malicious power or spell. When this happens, 
a Player-­hero may suffer from a penalty.
Penalties are normally indicated in the text as lose (1d) 
or more, meaning that a Player-­hero rolls fewer Suc­
cess dice (down to a minimum of zero Success dice).
Usually, penalties come from situational disadvantages, like 
adopting a less aggressive stance in combat, or suffering from 
a complication (see Chapter 6). 
MAGICAL SUCCESS
Enchanted artefacts, like magic rings and cloaks, and ancient 
spells and uncanny powers, can allow a Player-­hero to exceed 
the possibilities of mere mortals.
Player-­heroes possessing a magical talent or artefact 
can spend 1 point of Hope before a Skill roll to achieve 
a Magical success — that is, to pass their action auto­
matically, regardless of the Target Number. 
In game terms, the roll is made by rolling only the required 
number of Success dice (to check for higher degrees of suc-
cess) but disregarding the numerical total obtained. 
Narratively, a Magical success is an outcome that can 
hardly be mistaken for an ordinary success — in other 
words, the Player-­hero has achieved something so unusual 
that it could not be accomplished without a supernatu-
ral aid.
For example, a Player-­hero who attempts to intimidate 
some guards with a roll of AWE seems to grow in stature, 
as the light dims and the shadows lengthen around the 
character. Or again, a Player-­hero rolling SONG makes the 
listeners experience visions of what the music is about.
Player-­heroes who have the chance to achieve a magi-
cal success can also attempt actions that would be impos-
sible to achieve by someone without a magical aid — for 
example, climbing a sheer wall of rock without tools, 
jumping across a chasm six or more yards wide in full 
gear, or running on fresh snow as if it was firm sand. 
BONUSES VS PENALTIES
Bonuses and penalties are cumulative — if a Player-­
hero gains or loses dice from multiple sources, 
simply add up all gained dice and subtract all 
lost dice. 
For example, if a Player-­hero gains (1d) from a 
supporting Player-­hero, gains (2d) spending Hope 
while Inspired, and loses (1d) from a penalty, the 
affected roll finally gains (2d).
NOT-­SO-­SUBTLE MAGIC
A Magical success is an outcome so remarkable 
and unusual that it may be unsettling to folk not 
used to such feats, or raise suspicion in individ-
uals capable of recognising their otherworldly 
nature. Moreover, overt magical effects, even 
when invoked for beneficial purposes, may 
sometimes be misinterpreted, as many associ-
ate supernatural occurrences with the working 
of dark sorcery. (See also the rules for the Eye 
of Mordor, on page 169).

CHAPTER 2
22
conditions
“‘A Balrog,’ muttered Gandalf. ‘Now I understand.’ He faltered and leaned heavily 
on his staff. ‘What an evil fortune! And I am already weary.’”
Die rolls can be modified by three special conditions that can 
affect the Player-­heroes. All conditions are recorded on the 
character sheet by checking the corresponding box. 
miserable
The oppressing burden of the Twilight of the Third Age as 
perceived by the Player-­heroes is represented in the game by 
their Shadow rating. Heroes gain Shadow points in many ways 
in the course of their adventuring — when their Shadow rat-
ing matches or exceeds their current Hope score they become 
Miserable.
When a Miserable hero is making a roll, if the Feat die 
result shows the 
 icon, the action fails, regardless 
of the total result obtained by the roll.
weary
The resistance of the Player-­heroes is represented in game 
terms by their Endurance score. Heroes can lose Endurance 
in many ways, for example as the consequence of receiving a 
blow in combat or straining excessively while carrying a heavy 
burden — when their Endurance drops to a level equal to or 
lower than their Load score, they become Weary. 
When a Weary hero is making a roll, all the Success 
Dice that come up showing a result in an outlined 
number (1, 2, or 3) are considered to have given a 
result of zero instead.
See pages 49 and 69 for more about Load and 
Endurance, respectively.
wounded
Serious injuries can cause a hero to become Wounded. While 
losing and recovering Endurance is an everyday occurrence, 
being Wounded is a more serious predicament for an adven-
turer and will affect them for much longer. Heroes are 
Wounded most often in combat. 
Wounded heroes who remain active risk being 
knocked out of combat and recover lost Endurance 
points more slowly (see Resting, page 71).
the character sheet
“…I was given a description that fits you well enough, if I may say so.”
All Player-­heroes are defined in the game by a collection of 
traits and numbers, describing their physical, spiritual, and 
mental attributes and the extent of their knowledge and capa-
bility as adventurers. These values influence how they interact 
with the game rules, so it is important that they are close at 
hand and easy to keep track of.
For ease of reference, all players get a character sheet, 
a descriptive form that is easily compiled and updated as 
a Player-­hero grows. A blank character sheet can be found 
on page 239, and a PDF version can be downloaded from 
­freeleaguepublishing.com.

ACTION RESOLUTION
23
DIE ROLL PROCEDURE
Once the necessity to roll dice has been determined, fol-
low the steps below to make a die roll.
1.	 Define what the Player-­hero is trying to achieve 
with the roll. This is important to determine its 
consequences, both in the case of success and 
failure.
2.	 Select the ability to be used for the roll. Players 
are encouraged to suggest the appropriate ability. 
The difficulty for the action is based on the rele-
vant Attribute TN.
3.	 Take one Feat Die and a number of Success Dice 
equal to the rating of the chosen ability (or two 
Feat Dice, if the roll is Favoured or Ill-­favoured). 
Spend 1 Hope to gain (1d) — gain (2d) if Inspired.
4.	 Make the roll. If the roll is Favoured, choose the 
best result on the Feat Dice, or the worst if Ill-­
Favoured. If you roll a 
, the action is automati-
cally a success. If you are Miserable and you roll 
an 
, you fail automatically instead.
5.	 Otherwise, all numerical dice results are added up 
to get the action result. If you are Weary, all Suc-
cess Dice results in outline (1, 2 and 3) are ignored. 
If the total action result is equal or superior to the 
relevant Target Number, the action is a success. If 
the result is lower than the Target Number, the 
action has failed. 
6.	 If the action is successful, the number of 
 results 
rolled indicates the degree of success, and can be 
spent to achieve a special success.

CHAPTER 2
A GLOSSARY OF GAME TERMS
As can be seen from the sample char-
acter sheet shown on these pages, the 
game makes use of several specific 
terms. Here are some definitions to help 
get players started. These are explained 
in more detail in later chapters.
ADVENTURE  AND SKILL POINTS: When 
they start adventuring, Player-­heroes 
change and grow by gaining and using 
Adventure and Skill points, accumulated 
by players after each session. 
ARMOUR: Characters wear armour to 
avoid suffering lasting damage in com-
bat. Usually composed of several lay-
ers of protective garments, armour is 
always burdensome and heavy. Player-­
heroes can wear a helm to complement 
their defensive gear.
ATTRIBUTE RATINGS: STRENGTH, HEART, 
and WITS describe respectively the 
physical, spiritual, and mental profile 
of a character. These numerical scores 
are the primary building blocks of all 
heroes, and describe their aptitudes 
and natural capabilities. 
ATTRIBUTE TNS: During character cre-
ation, all players calculate three Target 
Numbers (TNs) using a Player-­hero’s 
STRENGTH, HEART, and WITS. These 
scores are annotated on the relevant 
spaces on the character sheet. These 
TNs are used to take the Attributes of 
a hero into account when resolving 
most rolls.
CALLING: A Calling is what motivates the 
Player-­heroes to seek a life of adventure 
and keeps them on that dangerous path 
every day. There are six different call-
ings to choose from, each one exem-
plifying a different adventurous drive. 
Player-­heroes can be Captains, Cham-
pions, Messengers, Scholars, Treasure 
Hunters, or Wardens. Callings let play-
ers customise their character concepts 
and help them focus on the beliefs and 
goals that give them a sense of purpose.
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Combat Pro-
ficiencies describe a character’s exper-
tise with weapons, like swords, axes, 
spears or bows.
CULTURAL BLESSING: A Cultural Bless-
ing describes a special ability or qual-
ity so profoundly ingrained in a given 
community that in the game it is made 
available to all its members. 
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: These pecu-
liar features are used by players to per-
sonalise their characters, and to gain 
an advantage when trying to achieve 
something related to a character’s 
qualities.
ENDURANCE: Endurance is the expres-
sion of a Player-­hero’s physical stamina 
and determination. It is reduced when a 
character is subjected to physical harm, 
stress, and exhaustion.
FATIGUE: Player-­heroes accumulate 
Fatigue points when on a journey. 
Fatigue raises a hero’s Load total tem-
porarily, making it easier for them to 
become Weary.
FELLOW­SHIP: This is a numerical value, 
generally corresponding to the number 
of Player-heroes in the Company and 
representing the bond of mutual trust 
enjoyed by all its members.
FLAWS: Under the pressure of the 
Shadow heroes can develop Flaws, 
embracing simpler, more primitive 
emotions, trading respect for arrogance, 
love for lust, trust for suspicion.
HEROIC CULTURE: The cultural group to 
which the Player-­hero belongs. Choos-
ing a character’s Culture is probably 
the most important choice to be made 
when creating a Player-­hero. There are 
six playable Cultures in this volume of 
The One Ring: Bardings, Dwarves of 
Durin’s Folk, Elves of Lindon, Hobbits 
of the Shire, Men of Bree, and the Rang-
ers of the North.
HOPE: A character’s Hope score defines 
the reserves of spiritual vigour that 
heroes draw upon when in danger.
LOAD: The weight and encumbrance of 
the gear carried by a Player-hero may 
limit their performance. Heroes are con-
sidered Weary as long as their Endur-
ance score is equal to or lower than their 
Load total.
MISERABLE: This box is checked when 
a Player-­hero has been made Miserable. 
A Miserable character finds it harder to 
accomplish anything — in game terms, 
NA
VALOUR
Heroic Culture
Cultural Blessing
Calling
Awe 
Athletics
Awareness
Hunting
Song
Craft
Axes
Bows
Spears
Swords
Enhearten 
Travel 
Insight 
Healing 
Courtesy
Battle
Age
Patron
Shadow Path
Standard of Living
strength
heart
rewards
combat proficiencies
war gear
skills
Damage
ENDURANCE
HOPE
TN
TN
Notes
Injury
Load
RATING
RATING
Treasure

ACTION RESOLUTION
if a die roll produces an 
, the action 
fails regardless of whether the total 
result of the roll was enough to match 
or beat the TN or not.
NAME: Here is where players write the 
name chosen for their character. As the 
various folks of Middle-­earth follow dif-
ferent naming conventions, players are 
advised to select a name from those 
provided as typical examples of each 
culture.
PARRY: A hero’s Parry score reflects their 
ability to deflect or in any way avoid an 
incoming blow. 
REWARDS: Rewards are pieces of war 
gear of superior craftsmanship, granted 
to a Player-­hero as an award for their 
deeds. Players receive a Reward when 
their Player-­hero attains a new VALOUR 
rank.
SHADOW: The accumulation of Shadow 
points undermines the Hope score of 
the Player-­heroes, weakening their 
spirit. Heroes are considered Miserable 
as long as their Hope score is equal or 
lower than their current Shadow rating.
SHADOW PATH: This suggests the indi-
vidual path heroes will follow if they fail 
to resist the Shadow’s influence.
SHADOW SCARS: Heroes can harden 
their will and trade their current Shadow 
points for a single permanent Shadow 
Scar.
SHIELD: Carrying a shield of any type 
enhances a character’s Parry rating.
SKILLS: Skills represent the things a 
Player-­hero has learnt to do. Players 
record their value by filling in the rele-
vant number of boxes. In some instances 
during character creation, players are 
instructed to check the box to the left 
of a Skill’s name, to mark it as Favoured. 
Favoured Skills describe a character’s 
peculiar talent in the field described by 
the ability. 
SKILL CATEGORIES: Skills are organ-
ised vertically into columns, grouping 
the abilities by the Attribute that is con-
sidered most influential. Thus, there are 
six STRENGTH Skills, six HEART Skills, and 
six WITS Skills.
STANDARD OF LIVING: This summarises 
a culture’s level of prosperity. A cul-
tural Standard of Living influences the 
amount of items a Player-­hero receives 
at the start of the game.
TREASURE: Heroes gain Treasure when 
they gain possession of materials and 
items of uncommon worth, like silver, 
gold, and precious gems. This space 
is used to record any Treasure points 
found by a Player-­hero.
VALOUR: A character’s VALOUR rank 
describes their stature as a doer of 
great deeds, and is a measure of cour-
age in the face of dangerous situations 
or opponents. Each time a Player-­hero 
attains a new VALOUR rank, they receive 
a Reward, as an acknowledgement of 
their actions.
VIRTUES: Virtues are unique abilities 
and special talents, characteristic of a 
given culture. Players select a new Vir-
tue when their Player-­hero rises to a 
new WISDOM rank.
WAR GEAR: The weapons carried by the 
Player-­hero, along with the correspond-
ing stats and Load ratings.
WEARY: This box is checked when a 
Player-­hero has been made Weary. 
Weary characters suffer a penalty when 
taking actions.
WISDOM: A character’s WISDOM rank 
defines their self-­understanding and 
capability for good judgement, and 
is a measure of their resistance to the 
corrupting power of the Shadow. Each 
time a Player-­hero attains a new WIS-
DOM rank, they receive a Virtue, as a 
consequence of this awareness.
WOUNDED AND INJURY: Player-­heroes 
are wounded when the attacks of their 
enemies successfully overcome their 
defences and protective gear, result-
ing in an injury.
ME
ARMOUR
WISDOM
Weary
Miserable
Wounded
Persuade 
Stealth 
Scan
Explore
Riddle
Lore
Distinctive Features
Flaws
travelling gear
virtues
wits
Protection
Parry
Load
Load
Helm
SHIELD
conditions
current 
hope
FATIGUE
SHADOW SCARS
LOAD
SHADOW
PARRY
TN
current 
endurance
Injury
RATING
skill 
points
fellowship 
score
adventure 
points


C H A P T E R  3
ADVENTURERS
He had a strange feeling as the slow gurgling stream slipped by: 
his old life lay behind in the mists, dark adventure lay in front.

CHAPTER 3
28
he following pages show you how to craft a Player-­
hero drawn from one of six Heroic Cultures. 
Using the guidelines presented in this chapter, 
you can create your own hero, complete with 
strengths and weaknesses, possessions, and aspirations.
The character creation process consists of a number of 
steps, and aims to create fictional individuals that are as close 
as possible to their player’s wishes, and that at the same time 
conform to the source material. The Lore­master should assist 
their players during this process, providing insight into the 
rules when needed, or simply to advise a player in making 
choices that are both true to the game’s setting and make for 
a satisfying character to play.
your characters
To create a character, each player must first choose a Heroic 
Culture, selecting the one that is closest to the hero concept 
that they have in mind. All Cultures presented in this volume 
belong to the Free Peoples, brave nations that refuse the 
darkness and are often at open war with it. They represent 
the main choices for roleplaying in the Westlands of Eriador.
1.	 Bardings
page 32
2.	 Dwarves of Durin’s Folk
page 34
3.	 Elves of Lindon
page 36
4.	 Hobbits of the Shire
page 38
5.	 Men of Bree
page 40
6.	 Rangers of the North
page 42
Once they have made their choice, players refer to the appro-
priate Heroic Culture writeup page and follow the steps 
described below, copying all information onto the character 
sheet (see page 24).
1.	 Record your Cultural Blessing
2.	 Determine your Attributes, choosing a set or rolling a 
Success die
3.	 Calculate your STRENGTH, HEART, and WITS Target 
Numbers — each TN is equal to 20 minus its corre-
sponding Attribute score
4.	 Calculate your Derived Stats: Endurance, Hope, and 
Parry
5.	 Record your Skill and Combat Proficiency Ratings
6.	 Choose your Distinctive Features
7.	 Choose a Name and Age
ANSWER THE CALL TO ADVENTURE
Players finalise their character creation process by moving on 
to page 44 and applying the steps described below.
1.	 Choose a Calling, from among Captain, Champion, 
Messenger, Scholar, Treasure Hunter, and Warden
2.	 Spend Previous Experience points
3.	 Choose your starting Gear
4.	 Record your VALOUR and WISDOM scores at 1 and 
choose your Starting Reward and Virtue
GATHER THE COMPANY
Last, but not least, all players cooperate in adding details 
about how their newly-­created adventurers met each other 
and formed a Company (see page 51). A Company may be 
composed of adventurers of any kind, but the sum of its parts 
is going to be influenced by the Player-­heroes’ selection of 
Heroic Culture and Calling. 

ADVENTURERS
29
heroic cultures
Bilbo began to feel there really was something of a bold adventurer about himself after all…
In Middle-­earth, the culture to which an adventurer belongs 
often defines them more profoundly than simply in terms of 
customs and traditions. For this reason, the most important 
choice that players must make is to select the Culture of ori-
gin of their adventurers. 
Each Heroic Culture’s writeup is composed along the 
same format of presentation, illustrated in the following 
paragraphs.
characteristics
This section offers a number of details defining the appear-
ance of a typical hero belonging to that culture and includes 
information about their adventuring age and martial tradi-
tion. A character’s age is recorded on the character sheet. 
In general, heroes rarely start their adventuring career 
before they are deemed fully grown by their culture. On 
the other hand, if they progress too far into adulthood 
without answering the call to adventure, then they proba-
bly won’t heed it at all. 
Moreover, it provides the description of their Cultural 
Blessing — a special ability possessed by all Player-­heroes 
belonging to that culture, from the Stout-­hearted quality of 
the Bardings to the Redoubtable nature of the Dwarves (this 
part may additionally include information defining a particu-
lar weakness or limitation that is associated with all members 
of the culture).
The section is concluded by a rough indication of the 
starting resources available to the average adventurer belong-
ing to that culture, in the form of a Standard of Living (see 
page 72). The game ranks the economic status of a folk in six 
tiers: Poor, Frugal, Common, Prosperous, Rich and Very Rich.
attributes
There are three Attributes in The One Ring: STRENGTH, 
HEART, and WITS. These scores describe an adventurer’s 
fundamental physical, emotional, and mental capabilities—
the comparison between the three ratings provides a rough 
outline of an adventurer that is recognisable at a glance: Is 
your hero physically stronger, or more spiritually robust? Or 
are their wits their most distinctive quality?
	
♦A Player-­hero with a high STRENGTH score can be 
tough and fit, or quick and alert, or physically attrac-
tive or imposing. Every aspect of an adventurer that 
relies on vigour or physical well-­being is represented 
in the game by STRENGTH.
	
♦
HEART measures an adventurer’s capacity for emo-
tion, empathy, and enthusiasm. A Player-­hero with a 
high HEART score can be fiery, energetic, and hard 
to daunt. Activities that benefit from a passionate or 
dynamic temper may be influenced by a Player-­hero’s 
HEART score.
	
♦A Player-­hero with a high WITS rating can be clever, 
attentive, and ingenious. Any action that calls for an 
adventurer to be sharp-­witted, sensible, or wise, bene-
fits from a Player-­hero’s WITS score.
TARGET NUMBERS
The three Attribute ratings are used to determine a Player-­
hero’s standard TNs — the default difficulty levels of all rolls 
made to challenge the characteristics of a hero. 
Each Attribute TN is equal to 20 minus its correspond-
ing Attribute score:
	
♦The STRENGTH TN is used in conjunction with all 
STRENGTH Skills, and when resolving attack rolls.
	
♦The HEART TN is used in conjunction with all HEART 
Skills and when making VALOUR rolls, for example to 
resist the effects of dread.
	
♦The WITS TN is used in conjunction with all WITS 
Skills and when making rolls of WISDOM, for example 
to resist the effects of sorcery and greed.
derived stats
The Attribute scores of Player-­heroes are used to determine 
three derived stats: their Endurance and Hope maximum 
scores, and their Parry rating. 
Endurance and Hope are the fundamental resources that 
keep an adventurer going — Endurance points are lost while 
engaging in strenuous activities, Hope points are spent vol-
untarily by players when their Player-­heroes try to overcome 
their limits. The Parry score sets the Target Number for all 
attack rolls targeting a Player-­hero. 

CHAPTER 3
30
skills and 
combat proficiencies
Skills represent those abilities that adventurers employ most 
often, while Combat Proficiencies reflect the expertise of 
a Player-­hero in fighting. The competence of a Player-­hero 
is represented by a rating, ranging from 0 (lowest) to 6 
(highest). Ratings in an ability are recorded by filling in the 
diamond-­shaped boxes to the right of its name. 
 
RATING
SKILL
COMBAT PROFICIENCY
—
Unskilled
Untrained
Poor
Beginner
Average
Average
Good
Experienced
Superior
Veteran
Outstanding
Master
Prodigious
Heroic
distinctive features
The three Attributes — STRENGTH, HEART, and WITS — give 
a good impression of an adventurer, but they fall short in 
defining what sets one individual apart from another. Distinc-
tive Features are traits typically displayed by heroes from a 
given Culture that are used to add nuance to their personality.
languages and 
typical names
Every reader of ­Tolkien knows how much the Professor loved 
languages — their structure, origins, and evolution — and to 
what length he laboured to devise the various names native 
to his fictional world, or to find suitable real-­world ones. The 
language of most folks inhabiting Middle-­earth has been given 
some attention, and the most important ones, like the differ-
ent Elven tongues, sport a sizable vocabulary and consistent 
grammatical rules. 
Every name in The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit has been 
carefully crafted, building upon solid linguistic foundations, 
and represents a precise cultural influence. The native lan-
guage of every character-­type presented in this chapter has 
been identified, and a list of personal names appropriate to 
each Culture is provided.
Players will find notes about the languages known by 
members of each particular people, and a list of character 
names for the players to choose from. Of course, players 
are free to name their characters in any way they prefer, but 
a level of consistency with the tradition of the culture they 
belong to is strongly advised. 
MANY TONGUES
Different languages can provide intriguing role-
playing opportunities, if the Lore­master and the 
players are interested. This shouldn’t get in the 
way of the fun, however. While ­Tolkien used the 
linguistic differences among the various realms 
of Middle-­earth to good narrative effect, he also 
found it simpler to avoid steep cultural barriers 
and gave most ethnic groups (even Orcs and 
other more fantastical creatures, like Ents) at least 
a passing knowledge of what constituted a ‘lingua 
franca,’ the so-­called Common Speech, or Westron. 
This allows players who don’t want to deal with the 
complex relations between the various peoples 
and their languages to ignore the entire subject 
altogether without damaging the setting. But if 
you are willing to explore this angle, it is certainly 
worth investigating.

ADVENTURERS
31

bardings
He was a descendant in long line of Girion, Lord of Dale, whose wife and child 
had escaped down the Running River from the ruin long ago.
The Bardings are Northmen of noble origins hailing from 
Wilderland, far off to the east. They rebuilt their city of Dale 
from its ashes after the slaying of the Dragon Smaug and 
they earned a new prosperity trading with nearby kingdoms 
of Elves and Dwarves. 
Each year, Barding merchants reach new faraway lands, 
as they look outside their borders to expand their trade and 
influence. Sometimes, warriors follow in their wake, hoping 
to prove their mettle against worthy adversaries, inspired by 
their King's slaying of the Dragon.
characteristics
Strong in body and fearless in spirit, the Northmen are the 
denizens of Middle-­earth that many consider to be nearest 
in kin to the Men of the West. They are strong-­limbed, with 
fair hair, although dark or even black hair is not unknown. 
Barding men tend to keep beards, and often let their hair 
grow to reach their shoulders. Women adventurers braid their 
hair in long, tight tresses. 
Bardings rarely become adventurers before their 18th 
year, and retire in their forties, when they return home to 
serve their family and folk. When abroad they may be rec-
ognised by their gear, as they often carry equipment of supe-
rior make. Unlike most denizens of Wilderland, Bardings 
prefer to use swords over axes, and naturally favour the bow, 
after the example of their King.
CULTURAL BLESSING — STOUT-­HEARTED
Stories tell that the Bardings lived under the shadow of a 
great Dragon for decades. 
Your VALOUR rolls are Favoured.
To the lineage of Gondor he added the fearless spirit of the Northmen…
STANDARD OF LIVING — PROSPEROUS
Thanks to its successful trading connections the city of Dale 
prospers. Those among the Bardings who choose a life of 
adventure are usually members of less affluent families — 
yet, their wealth is still superior to that of most of the deni-
zens of Eriador.
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
5
7
2
2
4
7
3
3
5
6
3
4
4
6
4
5
5
5
4
6
6
6
2
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 20
Hope
HEART + 8
Parry
WITS + 12
SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, 
choose one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as 
Favoured.
AWE
1
ENHEARTEN
2
PERSUADE
3
ATHLETICS
1
TRAVEL
1
STEALTH
0
AWARENESS
0
INSIGHT
2
SCAN
1
HUNTING
2
HEALING
0
EXPLORE
1
SONG
1
COURTESY
2
RIDDLE
0
CRAFT
1
BATTLE
2
LORE
1
CHAPTER 3
32

COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the char-
acter sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered 
a choice.
Bows OR Swords
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Bold, 
Eager, Fair, Fierce, Generous, Proud, Tall, Wilful.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
All Bardings speak Dalish, a language that can be described 
as a very old form of the Common Speech. As far as their 
names are concerned, they are usually composed of one or 
two elements (for example, Dag — Day, or Lif-­stan — Life 
Stone). Like most Northmen, Bardings often name their chil-
dren after a renowned ancestor or relative, or choose a name 
beginning with the same sound or sharing one element with 
that of the father (whose name is often given with their first 
name when introduced formally — for example, Lifstan, son 
of Leiknir, or Ingrith, daughter of Ingolf).
MALE NAMES
Aegir, Arn, Brandulf, Domarr, Egil, Erland, Farald, 
Finn, Gautarr, Hafgrim, Hjalmar, Ingolf, Jofur, 
Kolbeinn, Leiknir, Lomund, Munan, Nari, Nefstan, 
Ottarr, Ragnarr, Reinald, Sigmarr, Steinarr, Thorald, 
Torwald, Ulfarr, Unnarr, Vandil, Varinn.
FEMALE NAMES
Aldis, Asfrid, Bera, Bergdis, Dagmar, Eilif, Erna, 
Frida, Geira, Gudrun, Halla, Hild, Ingirun, Ingrith, 
Lif, Linhild, Kelda, Runa, Saldis, Sigga, Sigrun, 
Thora, Thordis, Thorhild, Ulfhild, Ulfrun, Una, 
Valdis, Vigdis, Walda.
ADVENTURERS
33

dwarves of 
durin’s folk
Only on the Road would travellers be found, most often Dwarves, hurrying along on 
business of their own, and with no help and few words to spare for strangers.
The Dwarves are an ancient and proud folk, whose customs 
and traditions are mostly unknown to outsiders. A dwindling 
people, they have recently recovered some of their lost great-
ness, and a Dwarven King reigns once again under the Lonely 
Mountain, in Wilderland. 
Many Dwarves cross into Eriador from the East, on their 
way to their mines in the Blue Mountains. They can often be 
seen marching along the East-­West Road that runs through 
the Shire and ends at the Grey Havens.
characteristics
The Dwarves are exceedingly strong for their height, and 
hard to break or corrupt, but often at odds with other folks 
over old quarrels or new slights. They are short and stocky, 
with robust limbs and heads crowned with long hair and lon-
ger beards that give them their typically elderly appearance. 
When on a journey or in battle they plait their forked beards 
and thrust them into their belts.
Dwarves generally start their life on the road in their fif-
ties, and do not usually consider retiring before their nine-
ties. Around that time, many among them choose to dedicate 
themselves solely to the perfection of their crafts. In battle 
most Dwarves use axes and swords, but those belonging to 
their easternmost kin wield heavy two-­handed mattocks, a 
weapon derived from their mining tools.
CULTURAL BLESSING — REDOUBTABLE
Dwarves make light of burdens, especially when it comes to 
wearing armour.
You halve the Load rating of any armour you’re wear-
ing (rounding fractions up), including helms (but not 
shields).
Gimli the dwarf alone wore openly a short shirt of steel-­rings, for 
dwarves make light of burdens…
NAUGRIM
Dwarves are shorter than Men, but their work as miners and 
smiths endows them with powerful arms and shoulders. Yet, 
they still favour shorter weapons over longer ones.
Dwarven adventurers cannot use the following pieces 
of war gear: great bow, great spear, and great shield.
STANDARD OF LIVING — PROSPEROUS
With the fabulous Dragon-­hoard of Erebor reclaimed and 
their kingdom restored, the Dwarves are much richer today 
than in the past.
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
7
2
5
2
7
3
4
3
6
3
5
4
6
4
4
5
5
4
5
6
6
2
6
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 22
Hope
HEART + 8
Parry
WITS + 10
CHAPTER 3
34

SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, 
choose one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as 
Favoured.
AWE
2
ENHEARTEN
0
PERSUADE
0
ATHLETICS
1
TRAVEL
3
STEALTH
0
AWARENESS
0
INSIGHT
0
SCAN
3
HUNTING
0
HEALING
0
EXPLORE
2
SONG
1
COURTESY
1
RIDDLE
2
CRAFT
2
BATTLE
1
LORE
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the char-
acter sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered 
a choice.
Axes OR Swords
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Cunning, 
Fierce, Lordly, Proud, Secretive, Stern, Wary, Wilful.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
All Dwarves speak the Common Tongue, but preserve a knowl-
edge of a secret Dwarvish language. They receive a true name 
at birth that they do not reveal to members of other folks, 
and adopt another name in the tradition of their neighbours. 
This custom has been in use for so long that a number of 
names have become traditionally associated with Dwarves, 
and are used almost exclusively by them. Dwarves of renown 
are sometimes given an honorific title, celebrating an excep-
tional deed or distinctive quality (for example, Thorin Oak-
enshield or Dáin Ironfoot).
MALE NAMES
Ai, Anar, Beli, Bláin, Borin, Burin, Bruni, Farin, Flói, 
Frár, Frerin, Frór, Ginar, Gróin, Grór, Hanar, Hepti, 
Iari, Lófar, Lóni, Náli, Nár, Niping, Nói, Núr, Nýrád, 
Ónar, Póri, Regin, Svior, Veig, Vidar.
FEMALE NAMES
Adís, Afrid, Agda, Bersa, Birna, Dagrún, Dís, Drífa, 
Edda, Elin, Fenja, Frida, Geira, Gísla, Hadda, Hón, 
Ida, Ilmr, Jóra, Kára, Kóna, Líf, Línhild, Már, Mist, 
Nál, Oda, Ósk, Rán, Rinda, Sefa, Syn, Tóra, Trana, 
Úlfrún, Vírún, Yrr.
ADVENTURERS
35

elves of lindon
‘Yes, it is Elves,’ said Frodo. ‘One can meet them sometimes in the Woody End.’
The Fair Folk of Eriador have dwelt in the Westlands since 
before the drowning of Beleriand. They are all members of 
the Firstborn, displaying a wisdom beyond the reach of Men. 
They rarely leave their sanctuaries in the Grey Havens, for 
these are their fading years.
More and more leave Middle-­earth sailing West on grey 
ships, never to return. Those who still remain live mostly along 
the western coasts, where once were found great kingdoms of 
their kindreds. Wandering Elves can at times be encountered 
on the roads leading east in spring and autumn, when their 
companies leave their lands beyond the Tower Hills.
characteristics
All Elves are endowed with tremendous vitality and great 
vigour. They are not subject to illness or old age, and thus 
can dwell within the circles of the world until they choose to 
leave it, or are slain.
Elves may leave their homes at any time after they reach 
adulthood (at about a century of age). Adventurers older than 
300 years are rare, as in time all Elves find the sea-­longing 
that lies deep within their hearts to become irresistible. In 
battle, most Elves carry bows and spears. Many wield swords 
too, but by ancient tradition some still favour axes.
CULTURAL BLESSING — ELVEN-­SKILL
By virtue of their birthright, Elves are capable of reaching 
levels of finesse unattainable by mortals. 
If you are not Miserable, you can spend 1 point of 
Hope to achieve a Magical success on a roll when using 
a Skill in which you possess at least one rank.
“Keen are the eyes of the Elves,” he said. “Nay! The riders are little 
more than five leagues distant,” said Legolas.
THE LONG DEFEAT
The Elves find it hard to forget the taint of the Shadow once 
it has left its mark on their spirit. 
When it is time to remove accumulated Shadow during 
the Fellow­ship Phase, you can only remove a max-
imum of 1 point (see Spiritual Recovery, page 119).
STANDARD OF LIVING — FRUGAL
The Fair Folk live in harmony with Middle-­earth and have little or 
no use for those things that others consider precious. They lack 
nothing, and craft beautiful things using the richest materials, 
but they don’t profit from their wealth the way other folks do.
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
5
2
7
2
4
3
7
3
5
3
6
4
4
4
6
5
5
4
5
6
6
2
6
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 20
Hope
HEART + 8
Parry
WITS + 12
SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, choose 
one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as Favoured.
AWE
2
ENHEARTEN
1
PERSUADE
0
ATHLETICS
2
TRAVEL
0
STEALTH
3
AWARENESS
2
INSIGHT
0
SCAN
0
HUNTING
0
HEALING
1
EXPLORE
0
SONG
2
COURTESY
0
RIDDLE
0
CRAFT
2
BATTLE
0
LORE
3
CHAPTER 3
36

COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the char-
acter sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered 
a choice.
Bows OR Spears
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Fair, 
Keen-­eyed, Lordly, Merry, Patient, Subtle, Swift, Wary.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
In addition to the Common Speech, all Elves speak their 
own, fair tongue — the Sindarin speech. For the most part, 
the Elves of Lindon bear names fashioned in that language.
MALE NAMES
Amras, Aredhel, Beleganor, Belegon, Calanhir, 
Carmagor, Dagorhir, Durandir, Edrahil, Ellahir, 
Fincalan, Fuindor, Galdagor, Galdor, Hallas, 
Hirimlad, Ithildir, Lascalan, Linaith, Mablin, 
Malanor, Nauros, Orgalad, Pelegorn, Sargon.
FEMALE NAMES
Anórel, Aranel, Arbereth, Baraniel, Calanril, 
Celebrindal, Celenneth, Elanor, Elwing, Eraniel, 
Fimbrethil, Gloredhel, Idril, Irilde, Laurelin, 
Lôrwend, Lothíriel, Meneloth, Moriel, Narieth, 
Narniel, Nimloth, Nimrodel, Níniel, Tarandîs.
ADVENTURERS
37

CHAPTER 3
38
hobbits of the shire
…he wished to go and see the great mountains, and hear the pine-­trees and the 
waterfalls, and explore the caves, and wear a sword instead of a walking-­stick.
Hobbits are a small and merry folk, possessing a love for time-­
honoured traditions and respectable ways, and a strong dislike 
for anything out of the ordinary. If Hobbits had their way, the 
days would go by in an unchanging world, as they have since 
anyone can remember. At least, in their land, the Shire.
But since the return of Mr Bilbo Baggins from his adven-
ture with a group of Dwarves and a travelling Wizard, some-
thing has changed. Stories about remote lands, dark woods, 
Giants, Elves, and forgotten halls beneath the earth have 
started to circulate among Hobbits of a more adventurous 
sort. And with every year, another one or two discreetly dis-
appear to go and have adventures.
characteristics
Hobbits are much smaller than Men, even smaller than 
Dwarves, and might be mistaken for children of Men by those 
who do not know of their existence. They have never been 
warlike, but for all their gentle appearance they are surpris-
ingly tough, and difficult to intimidate or kill. A merry folk, 
Hobbits possess a cheerful spirit and a friendliness that makes 
them good companions. 
Hobbits do not abandon their comfortable lives easily, but 
when they do they usually wait for their coming of age at 33. 
A particularly reckless fellow might feel the call to adventure 
when in their tweens, as Hobbits call their twenties. When 
pushed to resort to weapons, Hobbits choose short swords and 
hunting bows, which they can shoot with uncanny precision.
CULTURAL BLESSING — HOBBIT-­SENSE
Hobbits have learned their place in the world a long time ago, 
and they display a robust capacity for insight that many folks 
mistake for lack of courage. No visions or wild fantasies can 
tempt them, as they do not seek power or control over others.
Your WISDOM rolls are Favoured, and you gain (1d) on 
all Shadow Tests made to resist the effects of Greed.
… they have a fund of wisdom and wise sayings that men have mostly 
never heard or have forgotten long ago.
HALFLINGS
Due to their reduced size, Hobbits cannot use larger weapons 
effectively. The weapons available to Hobbits are:
Axe, bow, club, cudgel, dagger, short sword, short spear, 
spear. Additionally, Hobbits cannot use a great shield.
STANDARD OF LIVING — COMMON
Hobbits live in peace, their land is well-­tilled and their borders 
protected, but theirs is an isolated island in the middle of a 
desolate region, and trading is an uncommon occurrence. 
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
3
6
5
2
3
7
4
3
2
7
5
4
4
6
4
5
4
5
5
6
2
6
6
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 18
Hope
HEART + 10
Parry
WITS + 12
SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, choose 
one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as Favoured.

ADVENTURERS
39
AWE
0
ENHEARTEN
0
PERSUADE
2
ATHLETICS
0
TRAVEL
0
STEALTH
3
AWARENESS
2
INSIGHT
2
SCAN
0
HUNTING
0
HEALING
1
EXPLORE
0
SONG
2
COURTESY
2
RIDDLE
3
CRAFT
1
BATTLE
0
LORE
0
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the character 
sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered a choice.
Bows OR Swords
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Eager, 
Fair-­spoken, Faithful, Honourable, Inquisitive, Keen-­eyed, 
Merry, Rustic.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
Hobbits speak only the Common Speech, preserving the use 
of a few words and names of their own forgotten tongue. 
Names are composed of a first name and a family name. First 
names for men are usually simple and short, with women 
being often given names of flowers or precious stones, but 
among the older families a custom survives of giving more 
heroic and high-­sounding names, whose origin can be traced 
back to a time before the Shire.
MALE NAMES
Andwise, Berilac, Bungo, Cottar, Doderic, Dudo, 
Erling, Fastred, Ferumbras, Folco, Gorhendad, 
Griffo, Halfred, Hamson, Ilberic, Isembold, Isengar, 
Longo, Marmadas, Marroc, Mungo, Odo, Orgulas, 
Otho, Posco, Reginard, Robin, Rudigar, Sadoc, 
Saradas, Tobold, Tolman.
FEMALE NAMES
Adaldrida, Amaranth, Asphodel, Belba, Bell, 
Berylla, Camellia, Daisy, Eglantine, Estella, Gilly, 
Hanna, Lily, Malva, Marigold, May, Melilot, 
Menegilda, Mentha, Mirabella, Myrtle, Pearl, 
Peony, Pervinca, Pimpernel, Primrose, Primula, 
Prisca, Rosamunda, Ruby, Salvia.
FAMILY NAMES
Baggins, Boffin, Bolger, Bracegirdle, Brandybuck, 
Brown, Brownlock, Bunce, Burrows, Cotton, 
Gamgee, Gardner, Goldworthy, Goodbody, 
Goodchild, Grubb, Headstrong, Hornblower, 
Maggot, Noakes, North-­tooks, Proudfoot, 
Puddifoot, Roper, Rumble, Sackville, Smallburrow, 
Took, Twofoot, Whitfoot.

men of bree
“…four miles along the Road you’ll come upon a village,  
Bree under Bree-­hill, with doors looking westward.”
The inhabitants of the Bree-land and its four villages lying 
about Bree-hill are the descendants of the ancient people that 
first dwelt in the region known today as Eriador, the Lone-
lands. Few have survived the turmoils that have ravaged the 
area, but they are still there now.
Today, the Men of Bree live at an old meeting of ways, and 
even if the traffic was far greater in former days, travellers 
of various sorts still make their way along those roads. Who-
ever enters the common room of the Inn of Bree is sure to 
hear strange tales and news from afar, and maybe be swept 
away by them.
characteristics
Most Men of Bree are brown-haired and rather short, and 
tend to be stocky and broad. This, combined with their cheer-
ful disposition, is the reason why they do not appear as out-
landish as most foreigners do to their neighbours, the inhab-
itants of the Shire. But like Hobbits, their appearance can be 
deceiving: the Men of Bree can be simple and friendly, but 
they are independent and wise in their own way.
Actual adventurers from Bree-land are rare indeed. If 
they leave their villages at all, they do it when the vigour of 
youth is in their limbs, and usually return home to settle down 
before their fortieth year. Not being of a warlike disposition, 
the Bree-folk favour simple weapons, derived from everyday 
tools and hunting implements.
CULTURAL BLESSING — BREE-­BLOOD
Due to the position of their homeland, the Men of Bree enjoy 
better relationships with Hobbits, Dwarves, Elves, and other 
inhabitants of the world about them than is considered usual.
Each Man of Bree in the Company increases the 
Fellow­ship Rating by 1 point. 
The Men of Bree were brown-­haired, broad, and rather short, cheer-
ful and independent: they belonged to nobody but themselves…
STANDARD OF LIVING — COMMON
Bree-­land is not as wealthy as it once was, but these days the 
inhabitants of the four villages are no more rustic than their 
neighbours in the Shire, and no less well-­off.
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
2
5
7
2
3
4
7
3
3
5
6
4
4
4
6
5
4
5
5
6
2
6
6
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 20
Hope
HEART + 10
Parry
WITS + 10
SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, choose 
one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as Favoured.
AWE
0
ENHEARTEN
2
PERSUADE
2
ATHLETICS
1
TRAVEL
1
STEALTH
1
AWARENESS
1
INSIGHT
2
SCAN
1
HUNTING
1
HEALING
0
EXPLORE
1
SONG
1
COURTESY
3
RIDDLE
2
CRAFT
2
BATTLE
0
LORE
0
CHAPTER 3
40

COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the character 
sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered a choice.
Axes OR Spears
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Cun-
ning, Fair-­spoken, Faithful, Generous, Inquisitive, Patient, 
Rustic, True-­hearted.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
The Men of Bree have forgotten their ancient, native speech, 
and speak the Common Tongue, albeit slightly altered in a 
local dialect. They use names that to foreign ears sound sim-
ilar to those used by Hobbits in the Shire (Hobbits beg to 
differ, of course).
MALE NAMES
Alfred, Artie, Bill, Bob, Carl, Ed, Fred, Giles, Herb, 
Larry, Nob, Oswald, Percy, Perry, Sid, Tom, Harry.
FEMALE NAMES
Daisy, Emma, Etta, Fay, Fern, Flora, Gert, Holly, Lily, 
Myrtle, Poppy, Rose, Sage, Tilly, Violet.
FAMILY NAMES
Appledore, Asterfire, Bellsap, Briarcleave, 
Butterbur, Cherryborn, Chesterstout, Droverwind, 
Ferny, Foxglow, Goatleaf, Hardybough, 
Heathertoes, Hedgedon, Kettlegrass, Lilyhawk, 
Mossburn, Mugworts, Oakstout, Pickthorn, 
Pollenroad, Rushlight, Shrubrose, Sweetroot, 
Thistlewool, Wayward.
ADVENTURERS
41

rangers  
of the north
…in the wild lands beyond Bree there were mysterious wanderers.  
The Bree-­folk called them Rangers, and knew nothing of their origin.
The Rangers of the North are a secret people, severely dimin-
ished in number with the passing of a thousand years. They 
wander in disguise among the ruins of what was once their 
kingdom of Arnor, tirelessly patrolling its many paths and 
roads.
While the years have lengthened, the task of the Rangers 
has always been the same: to keep the folk of Eriador free 
from care and fear. They labour secretly, keeping to them-
selves, and rarely giving their names to the travellers they 
save or to the folk whose farms they guard at night, when 
evil things come out from dark places.
characteristics
The Rangers are the last descendants in the North of the 
Dúnedain, kings among Men that once came to Middle-­earth 
over the Sea out of Westernesse. When they do not disguise 
their features, they are tall and lordly, towering above most 
Men. They are often silent and grim of countenance, and 
look wise and mature beyond their years.
Rangers take to the Wild around the age of twenty, but 
may begin to go on adventures even at a younger age. They 
retain their strength of body and will longer than most Men, 
but usually cease to travel far from Eriador when they reach 
their fifties. When in the Wild, they wear comfortable but 
weather-­beaten garments, favouring high leather boots and 
heavy cloaks of dark grey or green cloth, with ample hoods 
that can be cast over a worn helm.
CULTURAL BLESSING — KINGS OF MEN
Some say that the lordship of the folk of Arnor is a thing of 
the past. Yet, the Rangers of the North have inherited the 
sinews of those Men who wrested the Ring from the burning 
hand of Sauron.
Add 1 point to one Attribute of your choice.
They were fair of face and tall, and the span of their lives was thrice 
that of the Men of Middle-­earth.
ALLEGIANCE OF THE DÚNEDAIN
The Rangers are devoted to fighting Sauron and his min-
ions by an ancient tradition of war and strife. This obligation 
makes it harder for them to put their spirit at ease even when 
enjoying a respite from adventuring.
During the Fellow­ship phase (not Yule) you recover a 
maximum number of Hope points equal to half your 
HEART score (rounding fractions up). 
STANDARD OF LIVING — FRUGAL
Rangers rarely wear or carry anything whose worth cannot be 
measured in a practical way. Their gear or garments are never 
considered precious for the gleam of stone or gold, but for 
their capability to endure long journeys and strenuous fights.
attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL
STRENGTH
HEART
WITS
1
7
5
2
2
7
4
3
3
6
5
3
4
6
4
4
5
5
5
4
6
6
6
2
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance
STRENGTH + 20
Hope
HEART + 6
Parry
WITS + 14
CHAPTER 3
42

SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, 
choose one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as 
Favoured.
AWE
1
ENHEARTEN
0
PERSUADE
0
ATHLETICS
2
TRAVEL
2
STEALTH
2
AWARENESS
2
INSIGHT
0
SCAN
1
HUNTING
2
HEALING
2
EXPLORE
2
SONG
0
COURTESY
0
RIDDLE
0
CRAFT
0
BATTLE
2
LORE
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the character 
sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered a choice.
Spears OR Swords
2
Choose one Combat Proficiency
1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Bold, 
Honourable, Secretive, Stern, Subtle, Swift, Tall, True-­hearted.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
The native language of the Dúnedain is the Westron, or 
Common Speech. Some still learn the Sindarin Elven-­tongue, 
as it is handed down from generation to generation. They 
retain an ancient tradition of naming their children using 
that fair speech. 
MALE NAMES
Adrahil, Amlaith, Arvegil, Baranor, Belecthor, 
Bergil, Celepharn, Cirion, Damrod, Dírhael, 
Duinhir, Egalmoth, Eradan, Findemir, Forlong, 
Golasdan, Hallas, Hirluin, Ingold, Iorlas, Malvegil, 
Ohtar, Orodreth, Tarannon, Targon.
FEMALE NAMES
Anwen, Arbereth, Berúthiel, Baraniel, Calanril, 
Celenneth, Elnîth, Eraniel, Finduilas, Gilraen, 
Gilraeth, Gloredhel, Idril, Ioreth, Ivorwen, 
Lôrwend, Lothíriel, Luindîs, Meneloth, Moriel, 
Morwen, Narieth, Narniel, Orothêl, Tarandîs.
ADVENTURERS
43

CHAPTER 3
44
callings
He found himself wondering at times, especially in the autumn, about the wild lands, and 
strange visions of mountains that he had never seen came into his dreams.
Leaving home and setting off on the road is a courageous 
choice, often considered reckless by a hero’s family and folk. 
Adventurers leave behind all they know and love, so what is 
it that motivates and pushes them towards danger and the 
unknown? 
Whatever it is that motivates the Player-­heroes, it must be 
something that for them is worth the risk of crossing swords 
with the curved blades of Orcs. In The One Ring, this motiva-
tion is represented by an adventurer’s Calling.
Choosing a Calling provides a player with a start-
ing drive, the reason that pushed their character to 
become an adventurer. It is not meant to represent 
a profession or trade, but the sum of the ambitions 
and aspirations that eventually set them on the road.
There are six Callings for a hero to answer:
1.	 Captain	
	
	
	
page 44
2.	 Champion	
	
	
page 44
3.	 Messenger	
	
	
page 45
4.	 Scholar	
	
	
	
page 45
5.	 Treasure Hunter	
	
page 45
6.	 Warden	
	
	
page 46
Each player should select the Calling that best adheres to 
their character concept, keeping in mind that coupling 
each Calling to a Heroic Culture results in 36 combina-
tions — a Hobbit Treasure Hunter has very different rea-
sons to go adventuring than a Hobbit Scholar, but this 
is probably even more true if that Treasure Hunter is a 
Dwarf, or an Elf.
Callings follow a standard presentation: 
	
♦
FAVOURED SKILLS. Each Calling lists three Skills. 
When you select a Calling, you choose two Skills 
among those listed and mark them as Favoured Skills.
	
♦ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE FEATURE. Those who 
answer the same Calling share a peculiar ability, in the 
form of a unique Distinctive Trait.
	
♦
SHADOW PATH. An adventurer’s Shadow Path suggests 
the individual fate a Calling typically leads to if they 
fail to resist the Shadow’s influence. 
captain
He stood up, and seemed suddenly to grow taller. In his eyes gleamed 
a light, keen and commanding.
When the world is on the brink of ruin, it is the duty of all 
individuals of worth to rise and take the lead, whatever the 
risk. You have chosen to put your judgement to the service of 
others, to guide them in this dark hour. But you don’t want 
others to heed your commands out of fear or obedience — 
you want them to follow you because they trust you.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among BATTLE, ENHEARTEN, and PER-
SUADE and mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: LEADERSHIP
You possess the ability to direct others to action. When under 
pressure, other people naturally turn to you for guidance.
SHADOW PATH: LURE OF POWER
When individuals are given a position of authority, either by 
rank, lineage, or stature, they may end up mistaking their 
own aggrandisement for the greater good of the people they 
should be guiding or keeping safe. Power is the quintessential 
temptation, and provides the Shadow with an easy way to win 
the hearts of those who desire it.
champion
“War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who 
would devour all…”
You deem that there is but one way to oppose the return of 
the Shadow, and that it is to conquer it by strength of arms. 
You are recognised as a warrior among your folk, a valiant 
fighter, onward into battle. For you, the road to adventure 
leads straight to wherever your foes prowl or hide.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among ATHLETICS, AWE, and HUNTING 
and mark them as Favoured.

ADVENTURERS
45
 
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: ENEMY-­LORE
Enemy-­lore is not a single Distinctive Feature; you must 
select the type of enemies it applies to, choosing from 
Evil Men, Orcs, Spiders, Trolls, Wargs, and Undead. This 
Distinctive Feature gives you knowledge of the charac-
teristics, habits, strengths, and weaknesses of your cho-
sen enemy.
SHADOW PATH: CURSE OF VENGEANCE
Individuals who live by the sword are ever tempted to 
draw it, either literally or figuratively, when their will is 
thwarted or when they deem their honour to have been 
impugned by an insult. As corruption spreads in their spirit, 
their behaviour worsens, leading to more extreme violent 
reactions.
messenger
“Elrond is sending Elves, and they will get in touch with the Rangers, 
and maybe with Thranduil’s folk in Mirkwood.”
The Wise hold that evil days lie ahead, and that to keep hope, 
all who fight the Enemy must be as one. Yet, many miles and 
centuries of isolation separate the Free Peoples, and estrange-
ment breeds mistrust. You have decided that it is your duty to 
travel to distant lands, carrying tidings and warning people 
of the coming danger.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among COURTESY, SONG, and TRAVEL and 
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: FOLK-­LORE
You possess some knowledge of the many traditional cus-
toms, beliefs, and stories of the various communities that 
compose the Free Peoples. Likely the result of your wan-
derings, this information may help you when dealing with 
strangers, allowing you to come up with some useful facts 
regarding their folk or a smattering of the appropriate 
language. 
SHADOW PATH: WANDERING-­MADNESS
Travelling afar might be the duty chosen by a messen-
ger, but it carries the risk of never finding a place to 
fight for. The Road goes ever on and on, it’s true, but 
whither then?
scholar
“Speak no secrets! Here is a scholar in the Ancient Tongue.”
For you, knowledge makes the wild world a less threaten-
ing place. Yellowed maps in lost books replace a fear of the 
unknown with curiosity and wonder, songs composed in 
ages past strengthen the weariest of hearts. A love of learn-
ing guides your every step, and illuminates the way for you 
and those who listen to your advice.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among CRAFT, LORE, and RIDDLE and 
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: RHYMES OF LORE
Rhymes of Lore are short verses created by many Cultures to 
help them remember significant facts from ancient history 
which might otherwise be lost. Scholars of Middle-­earth credit 
much of their ancient knowledge to such rhymes.
SHADOW PATH: LURE OF SECRETS
Inquisitiveness and curiosity are desirable virtues in an individual, 
but knowledge can be put to malicious use, and learned individu-
als can look down on others as ignorant fools. Secrets are danger-
ous, as the very desire of uncovering them may corrupt the heart.
treasure hunter
Far over the Misty Mountains cold, To dungeons deep and caverns 
old. We must away ere break of day, To seek the pale enchanted gold. 
The world has seen the passing of the glory of many Dwar-
ven kings and Elven lords, and their heritage is now buried 
in Orc-­infested dungeons. Hoards of stolen gold and jewels, 
guarded by fell beasts, beckon all who dare to find them. 
You seek to recover what is lost, even when it means braving 
unspeakable dangers.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among EXPLORE, SCAN, and STEALTH and 
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: BURGLARY
This venerable talent includes pickpocketing, lock picking 
and, in general, any shadowy way to get hold of the posses-
sions of others or access protected areas.

CHAPTER 3
46
SHADOW PATH: DRAGON-­SICKNESS
Adventurers who find themselves on the Road to seek 
lost riches run the risk of catching the age-­old disease 
capable of turning a pile of enchanted gold into bitter 
ashes. As the Shadow tightens its grip on their hearts, 
the world shrinks around them and their closely guarded 
possessions.
warden
“Travellers scowl at us, and countrymen give us scornful names.”
In this age of the world, when shadows grow deeper with every 
passing year, you have sworn to defend all who cannot defend 
themselves. Often, your choice forces you to forsake civilised 
areas, to better guard their inhabitants from what lurks right 
outside their fences. This has made you a stranger in the eyes 
of the common folk, a threatening figure like those you are 
protecting them from.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among AWARENESS, HEALING, and INSIGHT 
and mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE 
FEATURE: SHADOW-­LORE
You have recognised that there is a hidden thread unifying 
most of what is malicious, dark, and terrible in Middle-­earth, 
and that the thread is thickening year after year. A quality 
shared by the wise of the land, the truth behind this knowl-
edge is becoming clearer as time passes. 
SHADOW PATH: PATH OF DESPAIR
Self-­doubt is often the way that the Shadow chooses to reach 
the heart of those who oppose it. For they know that the 
Enemy is strong and terrible and that those they protect are 
too naive or weak to fend for themselves. Every day they ask 
themselves: will my strength be enough to prevail, or will I 
drag down the innocent in defeat? 
previous experience
“…we have had to earn our livings as best we could up and down the lands, often 
enough sinking as low as blacksmith-­work or even coal mining.”
The ability levels of all newly-­created Player-­heroes can now 
be raised, to represent their experiences prior to their life 
as adventurers.
Players have 10 points to spend on raising Skills and 
Combat Proficiencies. The cost of raising each ability 
is shown in the two tables to the right. The first table 
gives the costs for Skill levels, while the second shows 
the costs for Combat Proficiency levels.
Players are free to raise their abilities as they see fit, as long as they 
have enough points to buy the desired level. Players can also buy 
ranks in Skills or Combat Proficiencies that their Player-­heroes 
didn’t possess at all, or buy multiple ranks in the same ability, as 
long as they pay the cost of each level individually.
EXAMPLE: 
A player wanting to go from LORE  to LORE 
 would 
spend a total of 10 points (2 to raise the Skill from  to 
, 
3 to go from 
 to 
, and 5 to go from 
 to 
).
SKILL COSTS:
SKILL LEVEL TO ATTAIN
COST
From — to 
1 point
From  to 
2 points
From 
 to 
3 points
From 
 to 
5 points
COMBAT PROFICIENCY COSTS:
LEVEL TO ATTAIN
COST
From — to 
2 points
From  to 
4 points
From 
 to 
6 points
 

ADVENTURERS
47
starting gear
…he got to Bywater just on the stroke of eleven,  
and found he had come without a pocket-­handkerchief!
All heroes start their adventuring career fully equipped with 
all the personal items and gear they consider best suited to 
a life on the road. In the game, such possessions are rep-
resented by an adventurer’s war gear, travelling gear, and 
useful items. 
war gear
Adventuring is a demanding task, often requiring heroes to 
march for hours on end, along mountain paths or travers-
ing fast-­flowing rivers — wise heroes should fight the urge to 
choose the biggest weapons and the heaviest suits of armour, 
as a weighty and cumbersome burden is bound to seriously 
hamper their capabilities.
Before the game starts, players get to choose the weapons 
and armour they want their characters to carry, using the War 
Gear lists found overleaf (more details are found in the Gear 
section, on page 73).
Starting heroes can choose one weapon for each 
Combat Proficiency for which they have a rating, 
and their preferred selection of armour, helms, or 
shields. 
Players should record their chosen weapons, armour and 
shields on their character sheets, paying attention to the fol-
lowing notes:
The PROTECTION score of a coat of armour is 
recorded separately from that of a helm (as some-
times, during combat, a hero might resort to dropping 
it to reduce the carried Load and avoid becoming 
Weary too soon).
Shields do not offer direct protection, but make a hero less 
likely to be hit, by providing a bonus to Parry. 
A shield’s rating is recorded separately from the main 
box devoted to Parry, as a shield can be smashed by 
an opponent’s blows.
Dagger
Sword
Long  
Sword
Short Spear
Great spear
Axe
Long-­hafted Axe
Great Axe
Mattock

CHAPTER 3
48
ARMOUR:
ARMOUR
PROTECTION 
LOAD
TYPE
Leather Shirt
1d
3
Leather armour
Leather 
Corslet
2d
6
Leather armour
Mail-­shirt**
3d
9
Mail armour
Coat of Mail**
4d
12
Mail armour
Helm*
+1d
4
Headgear
* May be removed in combat to lower Load.  
** See Standard of Living requirements on page 100.
SHIELDS:
SHIELDS
PARRY MODIFIER
LOAD
Buckler
+1
2
Shield**
+2
4
Great Shield**
+3
6
** See Standard of Living requirements on page 100.
WEAPONS:
WEAPON
DAMAGE
INJURY
LOAD
COMBAT PROFICIENCY
NOTES
Unarmed
1
—
0
Brawling*
Includes throwing stones. Cannot 
cause a Piercing Blow
Dagger
2
14
0
Brawling*
Can trigger Pierce as if it was a Sword 
(see page 99)
Cudgel
3
12
0
Brawling*
—
Club
4
14
1
Brawling*
—
Short Sword
3
16
1
Swords
—
Sword
4
16
2
Swords
—
Long Sword
5
16 (1h)/18 (2h)
3
Swords
Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Short Spear
3
14
2
Spears
Can be thrown
Spear
4
14 (1h)/16 (2h)
3
Spears
Can be 1 or 2-handed. Can be thrown
Great Spear
5
16
4
Spears
2-handed
Axe
5
18
2
Axes
—
Long-­hafted Axe
6
18 (1h)/20 (2h)
3
Axes
Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Great Axe
7
20
4
Axes
2-handed
Mattock
7
18
3
Axes
2-handed
Bow
3
14
2
Bows
Ranged weapon. 2-handed
Great Bow
4
16
4
Bows
Ranged weapon. 2-handed
* Weapons used to make Brawling Attacks (see page 67). 
Bow
Great Bow
Mail-­shirt
Coat of Mail
Helm

ADVENTURERS
49
travelling gear
A hero’s travelling gear includes the belongings that adventur-
ers carry when on a journey, in addition to their weapons and 
armour. In winter, this includes boots and thick, warm clothes 
— a jacket, a fur-­lined cloak, woollen hose (trousers), and blan-
kets. During the warmer months, the adventurer may do away 
with the heaviest items, and just include light clothes and cloaks.
Travelling gear does need to be annotated in detail 
on a character’s sheet only if a player wishes to do so, 
and is not given a Load rating. 
useful items
Any tool, instrument, or device carried by a Player-­hero to 
perform one or more specific tasks is a useful item. Things 
like a hammer, or a hunting knife, a coil of good rope, a lan-
tern, or flint and steel to start a fire, and so on. 
These are items that may gain the Player-­heroes an advan-
tage in game terms, but that also may allow them to do things 
that could not be done at all without them — for example, 
digging a hole in frozen ground can hardly be accomplished 
without a pickaxe.
Players are free to choose their useful items, possibly 
inventing a reason why a particular object is so handy — 
options include a particular craftsmanship, or another exotic 
feature. The item can also be some form of consumable or 
perishable goods, like a bottle of liquor, or a balm — in that 
case, the Player-­hero is considered to always have a supply that 
will last for the length of the Adventuring Phase.
Useful items are listed on a Player-­hero’s character sheet. To 
determine if they gain a Player-­hero an advantage, they must be asso-
ciated with a Skill, possibly along with a brief definition of their use. 
If a Player-­hero is making a roll outside of combat 
using a Skill associated with a useful item, and the 
Lore­master deems that this should grant the hero an 
advantage, the Player-­hero gains (1d). Only one item 
can benefit the same die roll.
All Player-­heroes start the game with a number of useful items 
based on their Standard of Living, according to the table below.
USEFUL ITEMS:
STANDARD 
OF LIVING
CULTURE
NUMBER OF 
USEFUL ITEMS
Poor
—
none
Frugal
Elves, Rangers
1 item
Common
Hobbits, Men of Bree
2 items
Prosperous
Bardings, Dwarves
3 items
Rich or Very Rich
—
4 items
LOAD
Selecting the right amount of things to carry is the first 
test of a hero’s mettle, and a light pack on a traveller’s 
back is an indication of their experience in the trade. 
In game terms, the hindrance that carried items cause 
to an adventurer, both in terms of weight and discomfort, 
is represented by a Load rating. 
Load is monitored only as far as War Gear and 
Treasure is concerned. All heroes are considered 
to carry without discomfort a reasonable amount 
of personal items and gear for a life on the road 
(their Travelling Gear, carried also with the help 
of their pack animals — see Hobbit Ponies and 
Full-­sized Horses, on page 50).
An adventurer can carry a total Load up to the character’s 
maximum Endurance. Since the Endurance score deter-
mines when a hero starts getting tired, it is generally much 
wiser to keep that total much lower than the maximum 
allowed (see Endurance, on page 69). 
Players keep track of their hero’s Load score 
on their character sheets, and must update it 
should it change during play — If they add or 
remove pieces of War Gear or Treasure to what 
the Player-­hero normally carries, the Load 
rating is immediately adjusted to reflect the 
increased or reduced burden.
Buckler
Shield

CHAPTER 3
50
hobbit-­ponies  
and full-­sized horses
The best asset of an efficient travelling Company is an appro-
priate number of ponies or horses to ride or to employ as 
baggage-­carriers. The number and quality of the mounts 
available to the Player-­heroes depends on their individual 
Standard of Living (see the table below) but are kept track 
of as a shared asset. 
Ponies are sturdy little beasts; they cannot go much faster 
than a normal walking pace, especially when loaded with 
stores and tackle, but are good to help the Player-­heroes cope 
with the toil of spending long hours on the road. Horses can 
go faster (see the Journey chapter, page 108), but few such 
animals are seen in the North, and most are used as pack 
animals or draught beasts.
The usefulness of ponies and horses as far as journeys are 
concerned is based on their Vigour rating. 
While travelling, all Player-­heroes gain a number of 
points of Travel Fatigue, as a result of journey events. 
At the end of a journey, Player-­heroes travelling with 
a mount reduce their Fatigue total by their beast’s 
Vigour rating (see the rules for journeys, on page 108).
Additionally, ponies and horses can be laden with those riches 
the Player-­heroes discover in the course of their adventuring 
(see Treasure, on page 158). 
Each pack animal can carry Treasure up to 10 points 
of Load.
“In the end he would only take two small 
chests, one filled with silver, and the other with 
gold, such as one strong pony could carry.”
EXAMPLES OF USEFUL ITEMS
	
♦A knife for skinning rabbits, a little box of salt 
to cook (HUNTING), 
	
♦A coil of rope with grappling hook to climb 
(ATHLETICS), 
	
♦A wind-­proof lantern (SCAN)
	
♦An exotic musical instrument (SONG)
	
♦A balm to soothe pain (HEALING)
	
♦A suit of expensive clothing, earrings of pearl 
(AWE or COURTESY)
	
♦A liquor to infuse strength (ENHEARTEN) 
	
♦A sunstone to navigate in bad weather 
(EXPLORE)
	
♦A fine pipe to find comfort (INSIGHT) 
	
♦A detailed set of maps (TRAVEL) 
	
♦A set of instruments to carve stone (CRAFT).
PONIES AND HORSES:
STANDARD OF LIVING
MOUNT TYPE AND QUALITY
VIGOUR
Poor or Frugal
The hero cannot afford a mount
—
Common
The hero brings an old horse, or half-­starved pony
1
Prosperous
The hero brings a decent beast
2
Rich or Very Rich
The hero brings a fine beast
3

ADVENTURERS
51
starting reward and virtue
He took from the box a small sword in an old shabby leathern scabbard.
There are many things that may betray the true nature of 
adventurers. It may be their weather-­beaten look, or the 
grim determination that surfaces when they set themselves 
to a difficult task. In game terms, nothing defines the stuff 
heroes are made of better than their special abilities and 
superior gear.
The growth in stature of a hero in terms of power and 
renown is tracked in the game using two values — VALOUR 
and WISDOM. Both ratings are ranked from 1 to 6, reflect-
ing the gradual transformation of a novice adventurer into 
a veteran hero. 
At the beginning of the game, the Player-­heroes have 
yet to prove their worth, and start with a rating of 1 
in both characteristics. 
Among their various effects on gameplay, VALOUR and WIS-
DOM grant players special abilities: Abilities granted by gain-
ing a new rank in WISDOM are called Virtues, while those 
gained by an increased rank in VALOUR are called Rewards.
	
♦Virtues give the Player-­heroes access to the peculiar 
abilities of their folk.
	
♦Rewards are upgrades that enhance a hero’s war gear.
At the start of the game, all players get to choose 1 Virtue 
and 1 Reward, selecting them among those listed in Chapter 5.
the company
“I am looking for someone to share in an adventure that I am arranging,  
and it’s very difficult to find anyone.”
Adventurers know that burdens are easier to bear when 
shared with others. That’s one of the reasons why they gather 
in a Company, a group united by a common cause — be it to 
fight the Enemy, lead a hunt for a prized prey, or scour the 
land seeking lost or stolen treasure. 
The creation of the Company is a procedure that can be 
used to wrap a character creation session, or that can take 
place right before the first Adventuring Phase. The players 
introduce their adventurers and determine the circumstances 
that brought them together — in general, it is good to assume 
that the Company has been together for some time already 
STARTING REWARDS (PAGE 79)
1.	 Close-­fitting (armour or helm) — Add +2 to 
the result of your PROTECTION roll. 
2.	 Cunning Make (armour, helm or shield) — 
Reduce your Load rating by 2.
3.	 Fell (weapon) — Raise the Injury rating of a 
weapon by 2.
4.	 Grievous (weapon) — Raise the Damage rat-
ing of a weapon by 1.
5.	 Keen (weapon) — Attack rolls score a Pierc-
ing Blow on a 9+.
6.	 Reinforced (shield) — Raise a shield’s Parry 
bonus by +1.
STARTING VIRTUES (PAGE 80)
1.	 Confidence — Raise your Hope by 2.
2.	 Dour-­handed — Add +1 to damage on a 
Heavy Blow, and +1 to Feat Die on a Pierce.
3.	 Hardiness — Raise your Endurance by 2.
4.	 Mastery — Choose two Skills and make 
them Favoured.
5.	 Nimbleness — Raise your Parry rating by 1.
6.	 Prowess — Reduce one Attribute TN by 1.

CHAPTER 3
52
when the game begins. The Lore­master assists the players, 
providing suggestions and advice. 
To create the Company, the players and the Lore­master 
must follow the sequence described below:
1.	 Choose a Patron
2.	 Choose a Safe Haven
3.	 Determine the Company’s Fellow­ship rating
4.	 Choose Fellow­ship Focuses
patron
A Company may be brought together by chance or design. If 
it’s not chance, then the meeting of the Player-­heroes might 
have been directly arranged by one of the Wise and the Great 
of Middle-­earth — their Patron. 
A Patron is an influential individual who has taken an 
interest in the group, and that in the course of the game 
will offer the Company additional reasons to go adventuring, 
often providing both support and counsel. All Patrons work 
with the Player-­heroes from time to time, following a per-
sonal agenda, but in general hoping to influence the events 
that are going to shape Middle-­earth in the years to come. 
The Company starts the game choosing one Patron 
among those listed below (but additional ones may be 
added in the course of the game).
To select their Patron, the players should check their char-
acteristics, and pick the one whose potential agenda seems 
more in agreement with their own goals as a group — for 
example, the list of Callings favoured by a Patron can be 
used as a good indication of what that individual might ask 
a Company as a favour or service in the course of play. The 
identity of the chosen Patron is recorded on the Company 
log sheet. 
As can be seen by consulting the table below, all Patrons 
may provide a Fellow­ship Bonus, effectively raising the num-
ber of Fellow­ship points available to the members of the Com-
pany, and another peculiar form of advantage, usually con-
nected to the expenditure of Fellow­ship points (see Fellow­
ship Rating, page 54). 
Player-­heroes gain the opportunity to go and see a 
Patron when they are in the same place during a Fellow­
ship Phase, choosing the Meet Patron undertaking (see 
page 121).
STARTING PATRONS:
PATRON
FAVOURED CALLINGS
FELLOW­SHIP 
POINTS
ADDITIONAL ADVANTAGE
AGENDA
Balin, son of Fundin
Captain, Champion
+1
Spend Fellow­ship to make a 
combat roll Favoured.
Reclaim lost strongholds, 
eliminate enemy lieuten-
ants, etc.
Bilbo Baggins
Treasure Hunter, 
Scholar
+2
Raise Fellow­ship by +1 when 
choosing the Meet Patron under-
taking to visit Bilbo.
Recover lost lore and lost 
things. 
Círdan the 
Shipwright
Messenger, Scholar
+1
Spend Fellow­ship to roll again all 
dice in a roll. Choose the Meet 
Patron undertaking to receive a 
rumour.
Rekindle hope, preserve 
the lore of the Ages.
Gandalf the Grey
Messenger, Captain
+2
Spend Fellow­ship to make a 
Shadow Test Favoured.
Warn the Free Peoples, 
inspire them to action.
Gilraen, daughter 
of Dírhael
Champion, Warden
0
Resolve Journey Events within 
the old realm of Arnor as if in a 
Border Land. Choose the Meet 
Patron undertaking to receive a 
rumour.
Fight the Enemy, defend 
the weak.
Tom Bombadil and 
Lady Goldberry
Warden, Treasure 
Hunter
+2
Spend all your Fellow­ship to call 
Tom or Goldberry’s intervention 
anywhere in Tom’s country.
Protect the land, find 
and preserve what was 
buried.

ADVENTURERS
53
the safe haven
The safe haven of the Company is a location that works as the 
starting base of operations for the group, and as its refuge 
to repair to for the Fellow­ship Phase. Usually, it’s the place 
where the Player-­heroes gathered for the first time.
In Eriador, the ideal choice for a starting safe 
haven is certainly the village of Bree, as it stands 
at the crossroads of the East Road and North Road, 
and everyone who journeys across the land stops 
at The Prancing Pony for a pipe to smoke in com-
fort (see Chapter 9 for more information about 
Bree and its inn).
In the course of their exploration of Eriador the Company 
will find new places suitable to be used as safe havens, 
widening their options — for example, a Company might 
eventually add the city of Tharbad and Rivendell as pos-
sible safe havens.
The Inn of Bree … was a meeting place for the idle, 
talkative, and inquisitive among the inhabitants, 
large and small, of the four villages; and a resort 
of Rangers and other wanderers, and for such 
travellers (mostly dwarves) as still journeyed on 
the East Road, to and from the Mountains.
LONG HAVE I WANDERED 
BY ROADS FORGOTTEN
Telling the story of how a Player-­hero reached the 
location where the Company first meets is a good 
way of introducing a character. Such a tale tells the 
other players where heroes come from, why they 
left, and possibly something about their abilities 
and aspirations.

CHAPTER 3
54
fellow­ship rating
The group of Player-­heroes is more than a band of roving 
mercenaries brought together by mere necessity. At its foun-
dation are communal goals and a mutual respect. This feeling 
of trust is recreated in the game by the Company’s Fellow­
ship score. 
Expressed by a numerical value, Fellow­ship is a pool of 
points shared among all Player-­heroes that is mainly spent to 
recover lost confidence: 
During the Adventuring Phase, Player-­heroes can 
spend points of Fellow­ship to recover points of Hope 
when resting (see page 71),
Additionally, Fellow­ship can be spent to trigger special effects 
tied to the Company’s Patron (see Patrons, page 52).

ADVENTURERS
55
The starting Fellow­ship score of the Company is equal 
to the number of Player-­heroes in the group; this value 
can be augmented by a number of Virtues or Cultural 
Blessings, and by a bonus associated with the Compa-
ny’s Patron. 
Once calculated, the Company’s Fellow­ship score is recorded 
by all players on their character sheets, in the designated 
space. For every point of Fellowship spent, all Player-heroes 
must adjust the amount on their character sheet. 
When all points have been used, the Company cannot 
spend any more Fellowship. Fellowship points are fully 
refreshed at the end of each gaming session.
Since Fellow­ship is a common pool of points shared by all 
Player-­heroes, any expenditure must be agreed upon by all 
Player-­heroes in the Company. 
fellow­ship focus
A Company’s Fellow­ship rating represents the loyalty that 
adventurers feel towards each other. But some of them might 
share an additional level of companionship with another 
member of the Company. Such a bond may be due to the 
respect felt for someone wiser or nobler, a special friendship 
shared with an old acquaintance, the kinship shared with 
a fellow compatriot, the deep affection for a dear family 
member, or even pity for someone considered to be weak 
or unfit for adventuring.
Each player can choose one member of the Company 
as their Player-­hero’s Fellow­ship Focus (players can 
also opt for choosing their Fellow­ship Focus later, at 
any point during a game).
Players are free to indicate any other Player-­hero as their 
choice, even one that has already been chosen by someone 
else. The bond doesn’t have to be mutual: a hero who has 
been chosen by another hero as a Fellow­ship Focus is free 
to choose any other character as their own. 
In game terms, Player-­heroes provide a greater advan-
tage when they help their Fellow­ship focus: 
Player-­heroes providing support to their Fellow­ship 
Focus make them gain (2d) instead of (1d).
But the benefit of caring for someone comes at a price:
Player-­heroes gain 1 Shadow point whenever their 
Fellow­ship Focus is Wounded, suffers a bout of mad-
ness, or is otherwise seriously harmed (this Shadow 
gain cannot be prevented with a Shadow Test — see 
page 137).
EXAMPLE: 
As seen in the example for support on page 21, a Hobbit 
burglar is receiving support from her Barding compan-
ion to open a locked Dwarven door. The support action 
gains the Hobbit a bonus Success die. If the burglar was 
the Barding’s Fellow­ship Focus, the Hobbit would gain 
(2d) instead of (1d).
experience
Somehow the killing of the giant spider, all alone by himself in the dark without the help  
of the wizard or the dwarves or of anyone else, made a great difference to Mr Baggins.
Characters in The One Ring change as the game progresses. 
As they overcome the obstacles that fate presents them and 
complete the tasks they have set out to accomplish, they find 
themselves deeply transformed by the experience, much like 
people in real life. 
In game terms, players earn points at the end of each 
session and at the end of the Adventuring Phase. 
Then, they spend them during the Fellow­ship Phase, 
to improve their adventurers’ abilities or to acquire 
new ones. 

CHAPTER 3
56
There are two types of Experience points: Skill points, that 
are spent to acquire new ranks in any Skill, and Adventure 
points, that are used to improve Combat Proficiencies or gain 
new ranks in VALOUR or WISDOM. 
skill points
The capability of heroes to profit from their experiences and 
hone their abilities as a result is represented in the game by 
earning and spending Skill points. 
Players earn Skill points as follows:
All players gain 3 Skill points each at the end of every 
gaming session they attend.
Finally, during each Yule Fellow­ship Phase, all players earn a 
number of additional Skill points equal to their adventurers’ 
WITS rating (see page 120). 
 
EXAMPLE: 
In the last Adventuring Phase, Folco the Hobbit has taken 
part in 3 gaming sessions, for a total of 9 Skill points. When 
the next Yule arrives, he will earn 6 additional points — 
his WITS rating.
adventure points
The sense of accomplishment of the Player-­heroes, their con-
fidence and skill at arms, and the hard-­earned respect paid to 
them by their peers are represented by the award of Adven-
ture points. 
Players earn Adventure points as follows:
All players receive 3 Adventure points each at the end 
of every gaming session they attend. 
further adventures
(Bilbo) … he had no close friends, until some of his younger cousins began to grow up. 
The eldest of these, and Bilbo’s favourite, was young Frodo Baggins.
There are several ways that a hero’s adventures might come 
to an end. Adventurers can die fighting against the servants 
of the Dark Lord, or their will can finally break under the 
burden of the Shadow. Or, if they are lucky, they can retire 
from adventuring willingly, to return to their own land in 
peace and spend their remaining years amongst loved ones.
But the struggle against the Shadow knows no respite, 
and before heroes abandon it they should choose someone 
to take their place, lest they see their legacy be lost. 
adventuring career
The life of an adventurer is hard for members of any cul-
ture. Dwarves and Elves may be long-­lived in comparison 
to Hobbits and especially Men, but their ability to deal with 
the harsh struggle against the Shadow isn’t really superior 
to others — In fact, it is rare for heroes from any Culture 
to go adventuring for more than two decades.
Player-­heroes are expected to rise to excellence in 
about 10 years of game time — meaning, to reach 
ranks of 5+ in VALOUR and WISDOM, and comparable 
levels in a Combat Proficiency. 
Heroes who get this far with their body and spirit intact should 
consider themselves very lucky and seriously think about retir-
ing. But much before they do that, they should choose an heir 
— only by doing so can heroes pass along as much of their expe-
rience as they can, before a well-­aimed blow finally ends their 
career, or sorrow and regret nest too deeply into their soul.
RAISING AN HEIR
Designating and raising an heir is the only way to continue 
playing with an adventurer that is related to their Player-­
heroes upon their death or retirement — Players who see 
their heroes die or leave active play without a ready heir must 
create a new, unrelated Player-­hero using the usual rules.
A Player-­hero’s heir can be anyone: a sister or a brother, a 
son or daughter, or a close or distant cousin fostered to follow 
in the footsteps of the adventurous relative; it doesn’t have 
to be a family member at all — heroes who have no relatives 
to designate may choose someone else entirely.
To designate an heir, players must choose the Raise 
an Heir undertaking during any Yule Fellow­ship 
Phase (see page 120). Then, they must spend up to 5 
Treasure points and an equal number of Adventure  

ADVENTURERS
57
points to form the heir’s Previous Experience reserve: 
for each Adventure point spent, raise the reserve by 1.
The first time the Raise an Heir undertaking is chosen, play-
ers choose a name for their adventurer’s heir, writing the 
name down on their character sheet. Once the heir has been 
named, players are free to choose again the Raise an Heir 
undertaking to spend up to 5 more Treasure and Adventure 
points and increase their heir’s reserve. 
A Player-­hero’s heir is ready to continue the Player-­hero’s 
legacy upon reaching 10 Previous Experience points. Player-­
heroes who prefer not to retire yet (and who don’t die!) may 
continue to choose the Raise an Heir undertaking, adding 
points to the Previous Experience reserve, up to a maximum 
of 20 points.
CREATING THE HEIR
When the time comes for the Player-­hero to retire, it is time 
to create the heir, making use of the usual rules for character 
creation, with the following exceptions:
	
♦Players designate one of their hero’s Favoured Skills as 
their family heritage. The heir receives this heritage 
ability as a free, additional Favoured Skill.
	
♦The starting Standard of Living of the heir is equal to 
that of the retiring Player-­hero (instead of that of the 
culture).
	
♦Instead of receiving 10 points to raise a hero’s starting 
Skills and Combat Proficiencies, players can spend the 
amount of points accumulated in their Previous Expe-
rience reserve, using the Skill and Combat Proficiency 
costs tables on page 46 (Skills cannot be raised above 
the fourth rank, and Combat Proficiencies cannot go 
beyond the third rank).
Finally, if the Previous Experience reserve of the designated 
heir is equal to 15+, a single item in possession of the original 
Player-­hero is passed on to the chosen heir as an Heirloom. 
If the Previous Experience reserve is equal to 20, a second 
Heirloom can be passed on.
An Heirloom is an item that has been upgraded with 
one or more Rewards, or a Wondrous Artefact or 
Famous Weapon or Armour.
Famous Weapons or Armour have their first quality automat-
ically activated when they are taken up by an heir. Further 
qualities can be ’awoken’ in the manner described on page 
78, as the new Hero gains levels of VALOUR. In the case of a 
Wondrous Artefact, its Blessings are revealed upon passing 
the item to the heir.
SESSION LENGTH AND 
ADVANCEMENT RATE
The average length of a session of play is consid-
ered to clock at approximately three hours. 
If a more granular rate of Experience 
points gain is desired, Player-­heroes can 
be considered to earn 1 Skill point and 1 
Adventure point for each hour of gaming.
This advancement rate is of course a rough esti-
mate, and can be adjusted to suit the playing style 
of a particular group. If a group considers to be 
able to pack more action into an hour of gaming 
than what is considered usual — for example, they 
complete in one evening an adventure that is pre-
sented as requiring two or more sessions — the 
advancement rate can be raised, to give 1.5 points 
per hour of gaming, or even more.


C H A P T E R  4
CHARACTERISTICS
“… you have been chosen, and you must therefore use 
such strength and heart and wits as you have.”

CHAPTER 4
60
eroes reveal themselves through their actions, as 
their strengths and weaknesses emerge when they 
are put to the test. They are a diverse folk, each with 
a unique combination of abilities and traits — some 
favour their strength and prowess to overcome the threats 
and difficulties they encounter, some rely on their fortitude 
and integrity to endure, and others appeal to their reasoning 
and astuteness to find a solution.
skills
“There is food in the wild,” said Strider;  
“berry, root, and herb; and I have some skill as a hunter at need.”
In The One Ring, almost every action heroes can attempt is 
resolved using a Skill: whether a Player-­hero is traversing the 
land trying to get back home (TRAVEL), running away from 
a threat (ATHLETICS), or listening intently to an orator’s 
speech to weigh their words (INSIGHT).
In game terms, Skills and their ratings represent what 
Player-­heroes are able to do and how good they are at 
doing it.
When using a Skill, players roll one Feat die and a num-
ber of Success Dice equal to the acting Player-­hero’s 
Skill rank — rolling only one Feat die if a Player-­hero 
is unskilled (rank 0). To succeed, the roll result must 
match or beat the Attribute TN corresponding to the 
used Skill.
FAVOURED SKILLS
A number of Skills can be marked as Favoured on a character 
sheet, checking the box to the left of their name. Favoured 
Skills highlight those abilities that come most naturally to a 
Player-­hero.
All rolls made using a Favoured Skill are Favoured rolls 
— the acting player rolls two Feat dice, keeping the 
best result.
skill categories
Each Skill belongs to one of three categories, based on which 
Attribute TN it’s rolled against. For ease of reference, the 
Skills are organised on a character sheet in three columns 
placed right under the Attribute box they depend on.
STRENGTH SKILLS
All Skills in this category rely largely on the Player-­hero’s physical 
aptitude. An adventurer with a high STRENGTH score is more 
likely to be imposing (AWE), to have a clear singing voice (SONG), 
to be fit and agile (ATHLETICS), to have good sight and hearing 
(AWARENESS, HUNTING), and to possess skilful hands (CRAFT).
STRENGTH Skill rolls are resolved using a Player-­
hero’s STRENGTH Target Number.
HEART SKILLS
The Skills under this category depend on the Player-­hero’s 
force of spirit more than anything else. An adventurer with a 
high HEART score may be a charismatic leader (ENHEARTEN, 
BATTLE), an energetic guide (TRAVEL), a gracious gentleman 
(COURTESY), be able to read the hearts of others (INSIGHT), 
or to understand their hurt and how to heal them (HEALING).
HEART Skill rolls are resolved using a Player-­hero’s 
HEART Target Number.

CHARACTERISTICS
61
WITS SKILLS
A Player-­hero’s mental aptitude affects those Skills that rely 
on quick thinking and creativity. A hero with a high WITS 
value will quickly learn witty oratory (PERSUADE), the arts of 
a burglar (STEALTH), show attentiveness (SCAN, EXPLORE), 
and will be clever and studious (RIDDLE, LORE).
WITS Skill rolls are resolved using a Player-­hero’s WITS 
Target Number.
SKILL LIST:
SKILL CATEGORIES
SKILL GROUPS
Strength
Heart
Wits
AWE
ENHEARTEN
PERSUADE
Personality
ATHLETICS
TRAVEL
STEALTH
Movement
AWARENESS
INSIGHT
SCAN
Perception
HUNTING
HEALING
EXPLORE
Survival
SONG
COURTESY
RIDDLE
Custom
CRAFT
BATTLE
LORE
Vocation
skills list
The 18 Skills cover wide areas of knowledge and ability, 
enabling players and the Lore­master to resolve most situa-
tions encountered during play.
The following list presents the Skills in alphabetical order. 
A brief description is provided, to help players and the Lore­
master to identify the type of actions that can be accomplished 
using each Skill.
ATHLETICS
ATHLETICS is a broad Skill, covering most of the physical activ-
ities that a hero might undertake while adventuring, includ-
ing running, leaping, climbing, and swimming. Heroes with 
high ATHLETICS Skill scores exhibit a winning combination 
of physical prowess, grace, and control, generally gained 
through continuous exercise and daily exertion.
A successful ATHLETICS roll produces a satisfactory out-
come in the physical activity, while a failed roll might lead to 
serious harm, depending on the circumstances. A superior 
result suggests a spectacular achievement.
Poor Mr Baggins had never had much practice in climbing trees, but 
they hoisted him up into the lowest branches of an enormous oak that 
grew right out into the path, and up he had to go as best he could.
SKILL GROUPS
The 18 Skills can be considered to be categorised 
together also by affinity into six ‘Skill groups’ of 3 Skills 
each, with each group being associated with a differ-
ent type of activity. Players may find this categorisation 
useful when identifying the right ability to use for a task. 
	
♦
Personality Skills (AWE, ENHEARTEN, PERSUADE). A 
hero’s personality comes through in their capacity to 
impress, encourage, and influence others. A good 
level of proficiency in all three Skills in this group is 
the mark of a leader.
	
♦
Movement Skills (ATHLETICS, TRAVEL, STEALTH). 
Overcoming obstacles, enduring long journeys, and 
moving secretly are the stuff adventurers are made 
of.
	
♦
Perception Skills (AWARENESS, INSIGHT, SCAN). The 
ability to catch hidden details often pays off, be it 
noticing an odd noise that gives away an ambusher, 
catching the gleam in the eyes of a liar, or spotting 
the crack in the wall that reveals a secret door.
	
♦
Survival Skills (HUNTING, HEALING, EXPLORE). The 
three Skills of this group, essential for a roving 
adventurer, make for an invaluable member of a 
company.
	
♦Custom Skills (SONG, COURTESY, RIDDLE). While 
heroes are often held to be uncivilised brutes by the 
common folk, their lives can sometimes depend on 
knowing the proper words, wisest song, or clever-
est answer. Excelling in these Skills is considered a 
noble achievement.
	
♦Vocation Skills (CRAFT, BATTLE, LORE). Before their 
resolve hardened and pushed them on the road to 
adventure, adventurers probably led a life much 
like that of ordinary individuals: learning a trade, 
defending their people, and absorbing their accu-
mulated wisdom.

CHAPTER 4
62
AWARENESS
The AWARENESS Skill represents a hero’s readiness to react 
and the ability to notice something unexpected, out of the 
ordinary, or difficult to detect. A high Skill score reflects both 
keen senses and the experience to understand what is seen or 
heard — a high level of watchfulness is extremely useful if a 
Player-­hero serves as a look-­out for the Company.
As Frodo watched he saw something dark pass across the lighter 
space between two trees, and then halt.
AWE
This Skill measures the capacity to evoke respect in onlook-
ers, and determines the impression the Player-­heroes make 
on someone they meet for the first time. Depending on the 
circumstances and on the player’s intentions, it can be used 
to instil wonderment, admiration, or even fear. AWE arises 
from a hero’s native charisma, but can also be engineered 
by a dramatic entrance or impressive attire.
Successful use of the AWE Skill evokes the chosen effect, 
while failure can lead to the opposite result. Achieving a supe-
rior success means that a hero has won the hearts of the 
onlookers or cowed them into silent submission.
For a moment it seemed to the eyes of Legolas that a white flame 
flickered on the brows of Aragorn like a shining crown.
BATTLE
A rating in this Skill shows a firm grasp of the rules of battle 
and the capability to maneuver appropriately when involved 
in a violent confrontation. The BATTLE Skill can be used to 
gain an advantage when fighting against a group of foes, or 
leading a company of troops in open battle and maintaining 
order in the midst of chaos (individual fighting talents are 
covered by Combat Proficiencies on page 65).
“Fools!” laughed Bard, “to come thus beneath the Mountain’s arm! 
They do not understand war above ground, whatever they may know 
of battle in the mines.”
COURTESY
The Free Peoples recognise common norms of decency and 
ancient conventions of behaviour. Observing these traditions 
demonstrates respect and is a way of quickly establishing a 
friendly footing even with complete strangers.
Succeeding in a COURTESY roll might mean the Player-­
heroes know what to say at the right moment to make a good 
impression with their host, or are mindful of their manners 
when receiving guests.
“You have nice manners for a thief and a liar,” said the Dragon.
CRAFT
The CRAFT Skill doesn’t really cover the whole range of abili-
ties of smiths, wrights, and other artisans, but reflects a talent 
for making or mending things by hand. CRAFT can be used to 
repair the wheel of a cart, or construct an improvised raft with 
wood found on a river shore, or to start a fire on a windy hill.
A high CRAFT score may indicate that the Player-­hero was 
a craftsperson before starting a life of adventure. Some Cul-
tures, such as the Dwarves and Noldorin Elves, revere crafts 
as the highest expression of creativity.
… the only craft little practised among them was shoe-­making; but 
they had long and skilful fingers and could make many other use-
ful and comely things.
ENHEARTEN
Player-­heroes can use the ENHEARTEN Skill to instil positive 
feelings in others, urging them to act on the matter at hand. 
They achieve this mainly through example, charisma, and 
personal conviction, rather than through the effective use 
of words (which falls under PERSUADE). This Skill can be 
used on individuals, but is particularly effective in influencing 
crowds. Player-­heroes with high ENHEARTEN ratings can be 
forceful orators, passionate agitators, and well-­loved leaders.
A successful ENHEARTEN roll awakens a chosen feeling in 
the subject, as long as it is not in opposition to their current 
mood. A superior success is enough to influence wholly dis-
interested individuals, or turn rivals into supporters. 
…he returned to the walls, and passed round all their circuit, 
enheartening the men…
EXPLORE
Player-­heroes rely on the EXPLORE Skill when they move 
through an unfamiliar area of the Wild. An EXPLORE roll 
may be required during a journey to find out where the Com-
pany is heading, or to get back on track after a detour; to cope 
with adverse weather conditions or other natural hazards; to 
create paths through the wilderness suitable for others to 
follow; or to choose a suitable place to set up camp. A high 
EXPLORE rating is an invaluable resource if a Player-­hero is 
acting as a scout for the Company.
“We have found a dry cave,” they said, “not far round the next cor-
ner; and ponies and all could get inside.”
HEALING
The knowledge of how to relieve pain and apply remedies to 
restore health to the suffering is an ancient one, and treat-
ments differ from culture to culture. However, almost all 

CHARACTERISTICS
63
traditions agree on the treatment of serious injuries, which 
must be tended immediately to keep from worsening.
The HEALING Skill includes bone setting and the use of 
herbs or salves, but the outcome relies on the ability of the 
healer to understand what ails the sufferer and determine 
what should be done to help them.
As a matter of fact, Gandalf, who had often been in the mountains, 
had once rendered a service to the eagles and healed their lord from 
an arrow-­wound.
HUNTING
Knowing how to hunt is a fundamental skill, shared by most 
cultures of Middle-­earth. A HUNTING roll may be required 
when pursuing a creature through wild areas, or to follow 
tracks and identify a quarry by its spoor. The HUNTING Skill 
also covers preparing traps and the training and use of hunt-
ing dogs or birds.
In wilder areas, hunters learn to apply their trade to more 
dangerous quarries — such as Orcs, Spiders, or Wargs — or 
else risk becoming the prey.
They dwelt most often by the edges of the woods, from which they 
could escape at times to hunt, or to ride and run over the open lands 
by moonlight or starlight…
INSIGHT
INSIGHT represents the ability to see beyond appearances 
and to recognise the hidden thoughts and beliefs of people. 
INSIGHT does not reveal if someone is lying, but the infor-
mation it yields can be used to draw useful conclusions about 
people’s motives. Heroes with a high INSIGHT score are often 
recognised as being sensible and discerning individuals, and 
many may seek their counsel.
A successful INSIGHT roll provides the Player-­heroes with 
a reliable, but partial, portrait of the person they are observ-
ing. A superior success allows them to correctly guess addi-
tional details about an individual’s state of mind. INSIGHT 
tests may be rolled in opposition to an adversary trying to 
sway or convince a Player-­hero of something.
“There are locked doors and closed windows in your mind, and dark 
rooms behind them,” said Faramir. “But in this I judge that you 
speak the truth.”
LORE
LORE expresses a love for learning: be it a fascination with 
descriptions of distant lands or an interest in family geneal-
ogy. Whenever an action involves knowledge of some kind, 
a LORE test is required.
Player-­heroes are considered to be knowledgeable in the 
traditions of their own people, and so the Lore­master should 

CHAPTER 4
64
rarely require a player to make a LORE roll for information 
regarding their own character’s Culture or the area they orig-
inally came from.
He knew many histories and legends of long ago, of Elves and Men 
and the good and evil deeds of the Elder Days.
PERSUADE
This Skill allows the Player-­heroes to apply their reasoning to 
convince other individuals of an idea or course of action. It 
can be used to influence small groups of listeners, but only if 
used in an appropriate context, such as a common hall. Per-
suasion requires more time than other Personality Skills, but 
can have a more lasting impact on other characters’ actions. 
A high PERSUADE score denotes an uncommon eloquence, a 
love of speech and knowledge of its proper use and its effect 
on listeners. Wise people, advisers to chieftains and kings, and 
their messengers all share this passion for the spoken word.
The successful use of the PERSUADE Skill allows a Player-­
hero to convince an audience that their current position 
regarding a matter is flawed. A superior success convinces 
listeners of the quality of a hero’s stance, and may even turn 
them into ardent believers.
Aragorn laughed. “Every man has something too dear to trust to 
another. But would you part an old man from his support? Come, 
will you not let us enter?”
RIDDLE
Owing its name to the ancient game, the RIDDLE Skill rep-
resents the ability to draw conclusions from seemingly uncon-
nected scraps of information by deduction, reasoning, and 
intuition. Adventurers also rely on RIDDLE whenever they are 
forced to talk about a subject but prefer to conceal part of 
what they know; for example, to tell something about them-
selves without revealing their identity.
As an accepted custom among many cultures, speaking 
in riddles is usually allowed among strangers meeting for the 
first time and wanting to speak guardedly. This Skill is also 
used to gain helpful insight from a spoken or written riddle.
“A Hobbit waded out into the water and back; but I cannot say how 
long ago.” “How then do you read this riddle?” asked Gimli.
SCAN
Player-­heroes can use the SCAN Skill when examining some-
thing closely or attentively. This Skill allows a Player-­hero to 
skim through a book to locate a piece of relevant information, 
look for concealed doors or hidden inscriptions, recognise a 
familiar face in a crowd, or locate a set of tracks on the ground. 
SCAN rolls are generally initiated by the players rather than 
the Lore­master. One roll is required for each inspection of 
a small area, such as a room. AWARENESS, rather than SCAN, 
is used to see if a hero passively notices something.
A successful SCAN roll generally lets Player-­heroes find 
what they are looking for — if it is to be found at all. A supe-
rior success usually means the object is found more quickly. 
“Less welcome did the Lord Denethor show me then than of old, and 
grudgingly he permitted me to search among his hoarded scrolls 
and books.”

CHARACTERISTICS
65
SONG
Hobbits and Men, Elves and Dwarves, even Goblins and 
maybe Orcs: all creatures of Middle-­earth celebrate by playing 
music and singing songs. Great deeds and grim misfortunes 
are remembered in verse, and pleasant or comic stories are 
told to ease spirits and find comfort.
The SONG Skill is used to recite poems, sing songs, 
or play instruments suitable to a character’s Culture. It 
can also be used to learn new works or create original 
compositions.
As they sang, the Hobbit felt the love of beautiful things made by 
hands and by cunning and by magic moving through him, a fierce 
and jealous love, the desire of the hearts of Dwarves.
STEALTH
Player-­heroes resort to STEALTH whenever they need to act 
in a furtive or secret way. The Skill includes hiding, moving 
quietly, and shadowing others. These activities often rely on 
quickness and precision, so a stealthy Player-­hero combines 
practised caution with the ability to judge the right moment 
to take a chance. Hunters, burglars, and solitary fighters use 
STEALTH to prosper in their trade.
A successful STEALTH roll indicates that the hero has gone 
unnoticed, while failure almost certainly attracts unwanted 
attention. A superior success produces an outcome so flawless 
that it may even be impossible to notice the deed after the fact.
So silent was his going that smoke on a gentle wind could hardly 
have surpassed it, and he was inclined to feel a bit proud of himself 
as he drew near the lower door.
TRAVEL
In the Third Age, the cities, villages, and towns of Middle-­
earth are often separated by many leagues of wild or deserted 
areas. Roads that used to lead safely to distant realms now end 
in broken trails that go nowhere. Whichever way the Com-
pany chooses to go, it will be a long and weary way before 
they get there. 
A successful roll of TRAVEL may let a Player-­hero esti-
mate the length of a journey, read a map, and even evaluate 
whether a group of strangers on the road can be approached 
safely or if they should be left alone instead. A good TRAVEL 
Skill is an invaluable asset for the Guide of the Company 
when on a journey (see page 108). 
The country was much rougher and more barren than in the green 
vale of the Great River in Wilderland on the other side of the range, 
and their going would be slow…
combat proficiencies
Legolas shot two through the throat. Gimli hewed the legs from under another that 
had sprung up on Balin’s tomb. Boromir and Aragorn slew many.
Adventurers start with a number of Combat Proficiency rat-
ings corresponding to the martial tradition of their Culture 
of origin. In game terms, Combat Proficiencies express how 
well Player-­heroes conduct themselves when engaged in battle. 
Rolls made using Combat Proficiencies are resolved as 
Skill rolls, rolling one Feat Die and a number of Suc-
cess Dice equal to the rank possessed in the Combat 
Proficiency used. If you try to use a weapon you don’t 
possess a rating for (rank 0), you roll only a Feat Die. 
Combat Proficiencies are not divided into categories, as 
they are all rolled against the STRENGTH TN when making 
Attack rolls (see Combat, page 93 and following). For ease 
of reference, they are all listed on the character sheet in a 
column placed right under the STRENGTH box.
Unlike Skills, Combat Proficiencies can never be Favoured, 
and they can be improved only by spending Adventure points 
(not Skill points).
combat proficiencies list
There are four different Combat Proficiencies in The One Ring: 
AXES, BOWS, SPEARS, and SWORDS. Each one represents a 
level of familiarity with a number of weapons of similar kind, 
allowing a Player-­hero to attack using any weapon covered 
by that specific Proficiency.

CHAPTER 4
66
Descriptions and characteristics of the various weapons 
corresponding to each Proficiency can be found on page 73 
in the Gear section.
AXES
Axes and other bashing weapons are often preferred to swords 
by warriors who favour a more brutal approach to fighting. 
Historically, the axe is the weapon of choice for most Dwarves, 
and for their folk it surpasses the sword in both nobility and 
respect. Dwarven weaponsmiths apply their cunning to mak-
ing axes of many different shapes and uses, and from metals 
of various colours. 
The AXES Combat Proficiency allows a Player-­hero to use 
an axe, a great axe, a long-­hafted axe, but also a mattock.
He was clothed in a tunic of wool down to his knees, and was lean-
ing on a large axe.
BOWS
A traditional hunting weapon, the bow is also commonly used 
in warfare. Made from a single piece of wood, or from a com-
position of wood, horn, or even metal, bows are a versatile 
weapon. They can be used during sieges, from horseback, in 
dense woodland, or in the open field. Archers usually carry 
another weapon to draw when the enemy gets closer; they sel-
dom carry shields, as they can’t use them when shooting a bow.
The BOWS Combat Proficiency enables a Player-­hero to 
make ranged attacks using a bow or a great bow.
“Praised be the bow of Galadriel, and the hand and eye of Legolas!”
SPEARS
The spear is arguably the most widespread weapon across 
Middle-­earth, arming kings and soldiers, riders and infantry. 
It is often no more than a long wooden shaft, tipped by a 
leaf-­shaped metal head, but some spears are works of majes-
tic artisanship, valuable heirlooms of noble households. The 
length of a spear varies according to the use it is designed 
for. Spears can be wielded one or two-­handed to thrust and 
lunge, cast to pierce from a distance, or used from horseback 
as lances. Warriors equipped with a spear typically use it in 
conjunction with a shield, and they usually carry an additional 
weapon, such as a sword or axe. 
The SPEARS Combat Proficiency allows a hero to make 
ranged and close combat attacks using a short spear or a spear, 
or to fight in close combat using a great spear.
He advanced until the point of his spear was within a foot of 
Aragorn’s breast.
SWORDS
The sword with a straight blade has always been the weapon of 
choice among free Men and Elves. A mark of nobility or rank, 
swords of superior make are passed down by generations of war-
riors, and arms of ancient lineage are often imbued with spells 
and curses, the bane of the servants of the Shadow. Swords 
vary in size, shape, and quality as diverse as the folks that craft 
them. Many malevolent creatures have devised swords after 
their own fashion, usually crude counterfeits of those made 
by Men and Elves.
The SWORDS Combat Proficiency enables a Player-­hero 
to attack in close combat using short swords, swords, and 
long swords.
“There is work for the Sword to do.”
COMBAT PROFICIENCY
WEAPONS
AXES
Axe, Great Axe, Long-­hafted 
Axe, Mattock
BOWS
Bow, Great Bow
SPEARS
Short Spear, Spear, Great Spear
SWORDS
Sword, Short Sword, Long 
Sword

CHARACTERISTICS
67
distinctive features
They are quick of hearing and sharp-­eyed, and though they are inclined to be fat and do 
not hurry unnecessarily, they are nonetheless nimble and deft in their movements.
Distinctive Features describe aspects of an adventurer’s build 
or temper, personality traits or physical peculiarities that pro-
vide them with an additional descriptive level. These features 
help players to picture their adventurers, and encourage 
deeper roleplaying.
Players are invited to take into account their heroes’ Dis-
tinctive Features throughout the game and to use them as 
guidelines, in particular when choosing a course of action 
for their adventurers.
Additionally, players can invoke a Distinctive Feature 
to improve their chances to succeed at a roll using a 
Skill. When this happens, the Player-­hero is consid-
ered to be Inspired.
A trait can be invoked on a roll only if, based on its descrip-
tion, it is reasonably plausible for someone with that quality 
to fare better than an individual without it. 
EXAMPLE: 
One evening at the inn, Folco the Hobbit invites his com-
panions to dance the Springle-­ring, a rather vigorous dance, 
while he sings a song from the Westfarthing. Folco is a Merry 
fellow, and he chooses to make his SONG roll Inspired — 
If he spends a point of Hope, he gains (2d) instead of (1d).
 
A full description for each trait is provided below.
distinctive features list
There are 24 Distinctive Features in The One Ring. Six addi-
tional ones are exclusive to Callings, and are described in the 
relevant section of character creation (see page 44). 
BOLD
You trust your capabilities to the point that you are not easily 
daunted, readily placing yourself in danger.
CUNNING
Your wit is sharp, and you are ready to use it to your 
advantage.
EAGER
You are filled with excitement and impatience when an 
endeavour piques your interest.
BRAWLING ATTACKS
Adventurers who must leave behind their trusted weap-
ons may find themselves forced to fight unarmed, or to 
rely on a simple dagger, or even a thrown stone. When 
this happens, they rely on their martial training to save 
themselves. 
Player-­heroes performing an attack while 
unarmed, or using a dagger, club, or an impro-
vised weapon, roll a number of dice equal to 
their highest Combat Proficiency, but suffer a 
disadvantage: they lose (1d).
CHANGING A DISTINCTIVE FEATURE
Players who have played the same adventurer for 
a long time might eventually grow tired of the 
Distinctive Traits chosen for their Player-­hero and 
feel the need for a change. 
Players can replace an old trait with a new 
one during a Yule Fellow­ship Phase, by 
choosing the Recount a Story Undertaking. 
Players should always exercise some common 
sense when they choose the new Distinctive Fea-
ture (and the old one being replaced) to avoid 
completely reinventing their Player-­hero. 

CHAPTER 4
68
FAITHFUL
You are steadfastly devoted to those ideals or individuals you 
have chosen to follow, and your unwavering loyalty often sup-
ports you in your deeds.
FAIR
You are considered attractive by most people, even by those 
not belonging to your folk.
FAIR-­SPOKEN
Your speech and manners are naturally pleasant and respect-
ful, and your words rarely provoke offense. 
FIERCE
When provoked, or when you deem it necessary, you may 
allow your savage side to emerge.
GENEROUS
You give with open hands and heart, always mindful of the 
needs of others.
HONOURABLE
You believe in acting fairly and doing what is morally right.
INQUISITIVE
Your curious nature is easily aroused, often by what is often 
not your concern. The positive side is that you are not easily 
deceived by appearances.
KEEN-­EYED
The keenness of your eyesight surpasses that 
of most folk.
LORDLY
Your dignified bearing arouses feelings of reverence and 
respect in onlookers.
MERRY
Your spirit is not easily discouraged, and you can find light 
in the darkest of shadows.
PATIENT
You are slow to lose your temper and can suffer fools, delays, 
or even hardship without complaint.
PROUD
You hold your feats and achievements, or those of your peo-
ple, in high esteem.
RUSTIC
Your ways are simple, some might say even uncouth, but you 
know that not all that is gold does necessarily glitter. 
SECRETIVE
You do not easily share your thoughts and prefer to conceal 
your intentions from the eyes of others, especially outsiders 
to your folk.
STERN
You possess a severe nature and express it in your behaviour, 
body language, and speech.

CHARACTERISTICS
69
SUBTLE
You may not be a Wizard, but often the ways you choose to 
achieve your goals are crafty, if not devious.
SWIFT
You move swiftly and are quick to take action.
TALL
You tower above most of your folk.
TRUE-­HEARTED
You are sincere, and your words and actions show your hon-
est intentions.
WARY
You are always mindful of your surroundings and observant 
of the speech and behaviour of strangers. 
WILFUL
You are firm in temperament and belief, and usually base 
your actions solely on your own judgement.
endurance and hope
Health and hope grew strong in them, and they were content with each good day as 
it came, taking pleasure in every meal, and in every word and song.
Endurance and Hope are what keep adventurers on the road, 
providing them with reserves of energy and with that addi-
tional momentum that sometimes is the only chance a hero 
has to prevail. 
Both ratings are calculated during character creation, 
and are based on a hero’s Culture of origin and on their 
STRENGTH and HEART stats. 
The resulting values are maximum scores: during 
play, heroes lose Endurance points as the result of 
exertion and of suffering harm, and they spend 
Hope voluntarily when they must succeed against 
difficult odds. 
Players record their maximum Endurance and Hope values 
on their character sheet using the boxes found under the 
corresponding stats, while they use the Current Endurance 
and Current Hope boxes to keep track of any changes that 
occur during play (alternatively, players can track them using 
different coloured counters or glass beads).
endurance
Endurance represents a Player-­hero’s resistance and is taken 
into account whenever an adventurer is subjected to some 
form of harm. In particular, Player-­heroes lose Endurance 
during combat, when they suffer physical damage from any 
other source, or as a consequence of any strenuous task 
requiring great effort. 
Player-­heroes whose Endurance is reduced to zero 
drop unconscious, and wake up after one hour with 1 
Endurance point (unless they are also Wounded, see 
Wounds, page 101).
WEARY
Used in conjunction with a hero’s carried Load (see 
Gear, page 47), Endurance determines when the weight 
and bulk of any equipment starts to affect a Player-­hero’s 
performance. 
FATIGUE
Travelling causes the Player-­heroes to accumulate 
Fatigue points, representing a form of exhaustion 
caused by protracted loss of sleep and the general 
discomfort of spending days in the open. Fatigue 
enters play exclusively in conjunction with the 
rules for journeys (see page 108). 
When gained, Fatigue points temporarily 
raise a travelling Player-­hero’s total Load, 
effectively making it easier to become 
Weary.

CHAPTER 4
70

CHARACTERISTICS
71
Heroes become Weary if their Current Endurance 
score becomes equal to or lower than their total Load. 
When this happens, the Weary box on their character 
sheet is checked. 
Player-­heroes remain Weary until their Endurance score rises 
above their Load again (see below).
RESTING
Player-­heroes regain lost Endurance points by resting. The 
extent of the Player-­heroes’ recovery depends on whether 
they take a short rest, or a prolonged one. 
SHORT REST: Under most circumstances, a day of adven-
turing allows for a maximum of one short rest, usually 
in the middle of the day. If precise timing is needed, a 
short rest may be said to correspond to at least one hour 
of inactivity. 
With a short rest, adventurers recover a number 
of lost Endurance points equal to their STRENGTH 
rating (Wounded heroes do not recover any points 
at all).
PROLONGED REST: Under normal circumstances, the Com-
pany is allowed to take a single Prolonged Rest each day (usu-
ally, a night’s sleep). The Lore­master may allow the group to 
take more than one Prolonged Rest if the Player-­heroes are 
recovering in a safe and comfortable place.
Player-­heroes taking a prolonged rest recover all lost 
Endurance points, or a number of Endurance points 
equal to their STRENGTH score if their Wounded box 
is checked.
hope
Hope is a hero’s reserve of spiritual fortitude and positivity. 
A hopeful character can keep going when physically stronger 
heroes have already succumbed to despair. 
During play, players can spend Hope to gain a Hope 
bonus on any die roll, or to trigger the effects of certain 
Cultural Virtues. 
Player-­heroes whose Hope score is reduced to zero 
are spiritually drained — it is impossible for them to 
find the energy required to push themselves beyond 
their limits.
MISERABLE
In the course of the game, Player-­heroes face threats capable 
of shaking their determination and will to fight. As a conse-
quence, they accumulate Shadow points.
Heroes become Miserable when their Shadow score 
matches or overcomes their current Hope. 
When this happens, check the Miserable box on the character 
sheet. A Player-­hero remains Miserable until their Hope rat-
ing surpasses their Shadow score again, either because they 
regain Hope, or because they find a way to get rid of Shadow 
(see The Shadow, page 136).
RECOVERING HOPE
Recovering Hope points indicates that the Player-­heroes are 
reaffirming their lost sense of confidence. There are three 
main ways to recover Hope: 
SPEND FELLOW­SHIP: During the Adventuring Phase, when-
ever the Company is resting, the Player-­heroes may spend any 
number of Fellow­ship points to distribute an equal number 
of Hope points among the Player-­heroes (all players must 
agree on the distribution).
TAKING A BREAK FROM ADVENTURING: During the Fellow­
ship Phase, all Player-­heroes recover a number of Hope 
points equal to their HEART score, and they recover them 
all at Yule (see Fellow­ship Phases, page 119).
RESTING: Finally, Player-­heroes who are down to zero Hope 
recover a single point of Hope once they take a Prolonged 
Rest.
SERIOUS INJURIES
Endurance loss should not be confused with being 
Wounded. While being hit in combat results in a 
loss of Endurance, adventurers are only at risk of 
death when hit by a Piercing Blow — a precise 
attack that threatens to bypass their armour and 
defences completely and cause serious injury (see 
the rules for Combat on page 93 and following, for 
the effects of Wounds and their severity).

CHAPTER 4
72
standards of living
Bilbo was very rich and very peculiar, and had been the wonder of the Shire for sixty years,  
ever since his remarkable disappearance and unexpected return.
The characters in The One Ring are adventurers: individuals 
used to relying on their abilities to find sustenance in the wild, 
rather than by putting their hands into their money bags. To 
avoid the need for overly-­detailed rules for economics, the 
game provides each of them with a Standard of Living. 
In addition to affecting a hero’s starting gear (see page 
47), Standards of Living come into play whenever it 
must be determined whether an adventurer can afford 
to pay for some out-­of-­pocket expenses, like buying 
a meal at the inn, or paying a fisherman for renting 
a boat.
Using the descriptions found below, the Lore­master and the 
players should be able to judge in most circumstances what 
a Player-­hero can afford.
standard of living 
descriptions
There are six Standards of Living: Poor, Frugal, Common, 
Prosperous, Rich, and Very Rich. At the start of a game, Player-­
heroes are ranked based on their culture of origin — players 
must make a note of their starting Standard of Living, and 
record the corresponding worth in Treasure points using the 
Treasure space on their character sheets. 
POOR
Impoverished folks are probably suffering from a bad harvest 
season, a fell winter, or the aftermath of a disease or war. They 
struggle every day to find what they need to survive, and have 
no time or resources to look for anything beyond the bare 
necessities, let alone equip themselves for adventure.
FRUGAL
Frugal folk usually live off the produce of their own lands and 
pastures. They wear simple clothes at most times, although 
they may possess finer garments for special gatherings like 
seasonal festivals, marriages, or funerals. Any jewels and other 
superior ornaments are treasured as possessions belonging 
to the community, and are passed down through generations 
of appointed keepers. 
Adventurers coming from a Frugal folk do not usually 
carry anything of unusual worth (unless as part of their war 
gear), with the possible exception of one or two pieces of 
expensive clothing or common jewellery, like a rich mantle 
or a golden necklace or bracelet; (probably a token of their 
status among their peers). Consequently, Frugal Player-­heroes 
can rarely afford to pay for anything, and prefer to find or 
make what they need instead.
	
♦
STARTING TREASURE RATING: 0
COMMON
A folk benefitting from a Common Standard of Living prob-
ably hasn’t suffered meaningful setbacks in recent years. 
Wealth is more widespread than among a Frugal folk, but may 
be distributed unevenly. Poverty is rare, as is excessive wealth.
Player-­heroes enjoying a Common Standard of Living 
have enough resources to look after themselves, and to pay 
for such things as simple accommodation and meals. Ever 
mindful of the cost of any luxury, they often lead an austere 
life, or resort to haggling to lower the price of whatever they 
are trying to get hold of.
	
♦
STARTING TREASURE RATING: 30
PROSPEROUS
Almost all families belonging to a Prosperous Culture can 
afford to live in separate, private houses. Important individ-
uals wear fine clothing and often have one or two attendants 
in their service at home, like a gardener and a butler.
Player-­heroes coming from a Prosperous Culture can 
usually pay for their share of any out-­of-­pocket expenses 
encountered along their journey, and might even pay for 
another member of the Company, if need be. This includes, 
for example, paying for comfortable accommodation, spend-
ing some time drinking in Company at an inn, and hiring 
beasts of burden. 
	
♦
STARTING TREASURE RATING: 90
RICH
This level of prosperity is usually a transitory condition for a 
folk, as great wealth can easily attract the attention of many 
enemies. Members of a Rich Culture live amidst many luxu-
ries, reaping the fruits of a flourishing trade or an extensive 

CHARACTERISTICS
73
treasure. Although those less well-­off warn that affluence 
can easily lead to spiritual or even physical weakness, the 
availability of material wealth may instead set an individual 
free to focus on more lofty matters, like the perfection of a 
trade or art.
Rich adventurers fare even better than their Prosperous 
fellows, but not excessively so. Their life on the move does 
not let them take full advantage of their resources, as a good 
proportion of their wealth will be made up of land and riches 
that are not portable.
	
♦
STARTING TREASURE RATING: 180
VERY RICH
No culture in Middle-­earth enjoys this level of prosperity. To 
reach it, Player-­heroes must spend years adventuring, look-
ing for hoards of gold and defeating the creatures jealously 
guarding them. If they do not die in the attempt, they deserve 
to spend their remaining years without any monetary con-
cern, as they can afford anything that might take their fancy. 
hoarding riches
Having several chests filled with gold under the bed makes it 
far easier for an adventurer to go around with a pouch filled 
with coins. The worth of all valuables that Player-­heroes can 
find in the course of their adventures is expressed in terms 
of Treasure points. 
Players record their heroes’ individual Treasure rat-
ings on their character sheets. As their Treasure rat-
ing rises, Player-­heroes see their Standard of Living 
go up accordingly.
Player-­heroes begin the game with a starting Treasure rat-
ing corresponding to their cultural Standard of Living. They 
attain a superior rank when their Treasure score matches that 
of the rank above theirs, as shown in the table below. 
IMPROVE STANDARD OF LIVING:
STARTING STANDARD OF LIVING
TREASURE RATING
Frugal
0
Common
30
Prosperous
90
Rich
180
Very Rich
300+
war gear
The Company took little gear of war, for their hope was in secrecy not in battle. Aragorn had Andúril  
but no other weapon, and he went forth clad only in rusty green and brown, as a Ranger of the wilderness. 
All heroes start their adventuring career fully equipped with 
all the war gear they consider best suited to a life of adven-
ture. In the game, this gear is represented by an adventurer’s 
Weapons and Armour. 
weapons
Here follow flavourful descriptions for each type of weapon 
available to adventurers just setting out in Middle-­earth. 
AXE
A fighting variation on the common woodcutting tool, axes 
hang from the belt of many adventurers raised in or near 
forests. 
BOW
The simple bow is not very different from a hunting-­bow. It 
never measures more than five feet in length, so as to be 
strung more quickly. 
CLUB
A club is probably the simplest form of weapon. It may con-
sist of a crude, heavy piece of wood, a nasty instrument rein-
forced with iron, or an elaborately-­carved staff used also as 
a symbol of status. 

CHAPTER 4
74
CUDGEL
A cudgel is any bashing implement used with one hand, like 
a small club or short staff.
DAGGER
One-­handed blades have a range of uses, from skinning ani-
mals to settling disputes among brutes. Daggers and knives 
are very common, and in the wild areas of the land, no-­one 
is found without one in their belt.
GREAT AXE
The great axe is an impressive weapon 
that can only be wielded with two hands. 
Its heavy head can leave both a deep dint 
on armour as a club and cleave it as a sword.
GREAT BOW
As tall as a Man and offering superior potency, a 
great bow can only be used by warriors with the 
height and stature to bend it fully. An arrow from 
a great bow can pierce the toughest of armour.
GREAT SPEAR
With a shaft longer than any other spear, a great spear can-
not be used as a ranged weapon, and must be wielded with 
two hands.
LONG-­HAFTED AXE
Borne with one or two hands, a long-­hafted axe is designed to 
hack through the toughest of armour. It is difficult to manoeu-
vre but when mastered it is a fearful weapon. A skilled fighter 
learns to fight with the long haft as well as the heavy axe head.
LONG SWORD
Only superior smiths can produce longer blades. These won-
derful Elven and Dwarven weapons, and the keen blades 
forged from strange metals by the Men of the West, are often 
known as long swords. A long sword may either be wielded 
with one hand, or used to hack and sweep with two hands.
MATTOCK
A heavy digging implement sporting a curved head with a 
point on one side and a spade-­like blade on the other. It was 
used to fearsome effect by the Dwarves who followed Dáin 
Ironfoot during the Battle of Five Armies.
SHORT SPEAR
Approximately six feet in length, a spear can be hurled as a 
javelin, or deftly thrust with one hand.
SHORT SWORD
Large daggers and knives, or smaller swords created for close-­
quarters combat.

CHARACTERISTICS
75
SPEAR
Maybe the most versatile weapon of all, a spear can be thrown, 
or used with one or two hands.
SWORD
A straight-­bladed, two-­edged sword, wielded in one hand to 
hew or thrust. This is the most common type of sword.
armour and shields
A suit of defensive gear is an essential asset for any warrior. 
Its level of protection, weight, and beauty depends on the 
material used and the cunning of its maker. 
A newly-­created character starts with one suit of armour, 
and may choose to wear a helm and 
carry one shield. 
LEATHER ARMOUR 
The simplest suit of armour 
available, leather armour 
is made of layers of cured 
and hardened animal hide sewn 
together. It is ideal for hunting or 
travelling as it is lightweight and 
comfortable, especially compared to mail armour. Leather 
armour may be crafted as a shirt, or a close-­fitting corslet 
with long sleeves, extending its protection to the wearer’s 
hips.
MAIL ARMOUR
Mail is the most effective type of armour encountered in 
Middle-­earth at the end of the Third Age. These suits of close-­
fitting metal rings are created to protect from cutting and 
thrusting weapons. From the shining hauberks of Elven lords 
to the black mail of Orc-­chieftains, mail armour appears in 
widely different qualities. Ancient coats of Dwarf-­make, when 
found, are matchless and prized possessions. 
A mail shirt is a chain garment protecting the back, chest, 
and abdomen of its wearer, while a coat of mail is a shirt with 
long sleeves. 
HELM
Worn in battle or for ceremonial purposes, helms are usually 
made of leather or iron, but sometimes of more precious 
metals. The shape of a helm or its decoration is often distinc-
tive, as it helps identify the wearer or their folk. More often 
than not, the protective features of the helm, especially 
nose-­guards or close-­fitting cheek-­guards, obscure the face 
and make it impossible to recognise the wearer otherwise.
SHIELDS
Armour is often ineffective against the heaviest of weapons, 
such as hammers or other blunt instruments of war, and many 
warriors use shields to deflect incoming blows. Usually made 
of wood covered in leather and reinforced with metal, shields 
vary in form and purpose. 
BUCKLER: Circular and made of wood reinforced by a pro-
truding metal boss, bucklers are usually smaller and lighter 
than regular shields.
GREAT SHIELD: Kite-­shaped, round or 
barrel-­shaped, these shields are carried 
by the sturdiest of warriors, and are 
used to carry back their bodies should 
they fall, but are considered too cum-
bersome and unwieldy by some.
SHIELD: Round or oval, shields are 
made of several layers of wood, often 
reinforced by a large central iron boss, 
usually decorated and engraved. A regular 
shield offers good protection from arrows, 
and is very effective at close quarters.


C H A P T E R  5
VALOUR AND
  
WISDOM
“There is more in you of good than you know, child of the kindly West.  
Some courage and some wisdom, blended in measure.”

CHAPTER 5
78
he heroic stature of an adventurer can be measured 
in different ways. The One Ring uses two gauges to 
show how an adventurer grows over the course 
of the game: VALOUR and WISDOM. These scores 
increase as a Player-­hero overcomes challenges that others dare 
not undertake. They are profoundly different to other types of 
characteristics, both in what they represent and in their influ-
ence on the game.
WISDOM or VALOUR affect the game in a few ways: they pro-
vide Player-­heroes with special abilities and superior equipment, 
and allow them to resist the dangerous influence of the Shadow 
(see The Shadow, page 136).
	
♦Rolls made using VALOUR and WISDOM are resolved as 
usual, rolling a Feat Die and a number of Success Dice 
equal to the appropriate rating in the challenged ability. 
	
♦The difficulty is the HEART TN for rolls based on 
VALOUR, and the WITS TN for rolls based on WISDOM, 
as modified by the source that originated the roll.
wisdom
WISDOM expresses the Player-­heroes’ trust in their own capa-
bilities, their self-­confidence and capacity for good judge-
ment. It is a characteristic with deeply personal implications, 
because it develops and improves through struggle and strife, 
and reflects an adventurer’s growth in stature in the eyes of 
those folk that prize such qualities.
If a player chooses WISDOM over VALOUR when spend-
ing Experience points, it suggests that adventuring is affect-
ing the Player-­hero subtly but profoundly. Starting out as a 
naive individual with an adventurous spirit, adventurers can 
achieve the maturity and sagacity of the Wise.
valour
VALOUR is a measure of a hero’s courage, as tempered by 
dangerous deeds. Individuals of valour are willing to place 
themselves in danger for the safety of others. In times where 
new threats arise each day, courage is highly prized, and a 
valiant adventurer is often esteemed above all others. For 
this reason, the VALOUR rank of Player-­heroes reflects the 
level of renown they have attained as doers of great deeds. 
If a player decides to favour VALOUR over WISDOM in 
the course of the game, the status of the Player-­hero in the 
eyes of others will be determined primarily by their actions 
and deeds. Even from the lowliest start as a wandering adven-
turer, adventurers may one day earn the repute and respect 
of famous heroes or kings.
rewards
Háma knelt and presented to Théoden a long sword in a scabbard clasped with gold 
and set with green gems. “Here, lord, is Herugrim, your ancient blade…”
In a world of growing darkness, trade is mostly limited to 
small areas and is often practised only among trusted indi-
viduals. Finely crafted weapons or suits of armour cannot 
be purchased, but may — rarely — be awarded for service 
or heroic deeds. Rewards represent the characteristics of 
such high-­quality weapons and defensive gear, priceless 
instruments of war given to heroes by their own folk or 
family, or by generous lords honouring them by letting 
them choose a weapon or a suit of armour from their per-
sonal armoury.
Rewards are upgrades that players can select to raise the 
effectiveness of their war gear. Each Reward affects a single 
characteristic of an item, for example improving its Load 
rating, its Damage, etc. 

Valour and Wisdom
79
Heroes from all Cultures choose a first Reward during 
character creation, and may choose a new one each 
time they gain a new rank in VALOUR. 
It is up to the players to decide whether a Reward represents 
the discovery of a previously unknown property of an item, 
or an entirely new weapon or suit of armour. Whatever their 
choice, they are encouraged to integrate the decisions into 
a narrative, telling the tale of how they received a gift or had 
their equipment improved. 
rewards list
There are six types of Rewards. Each one indicates in brack-
ets the type of gear that can receive that upgrade. All 
upgrades can be applied only once to the same piece 
of gear.
CLOSE-­FITTING (ARMOUR 
OR HELM)
A skilful smith has made this piece of protec-
tive equipment more difficult to overcome 
with a piercing blow.
	
♦When you make a PROTECTION roll 
while wearing a close-­fitting armour 
or helm you add +2 to the result. 
CUNNING MAKE (ARMOUR, 
HELM, OR SHIELD)
A skilled craftsman has made this piece 
of equipment lighter or less cumber-
some than its lesser counterparts. 
	
♦Reduce the Load rating of the selected item by 2 (to a 
minimum of 0 Load).
FELL (WEAPON)
Hard and straight, a Piercing Blow from a Fell weapon is 
stopped less easily by a suit of armour.
	
♦Add 2 to the Injury rating of the selected weapon. 
A weapon that can be wielded with one or two hands gets the 
bonus to both its Injury ratings. 
GRIEVOUS (WEAPON)
The weapon is strong and heavy, inflicting more harm on 
its targets.
♦   Add 1 to the Damage rating of the selected weapon.
KEEN (WEAPON)
Sharp or better-­balanced, this weapon is now 
more likely to produce a Piercing Blow when 
hitting its target.
♦   Attack rolls made with a Keen weapon 
score a Piercing Blow also on a result 
of 9 on the Feat die.
REINFORCED (SHIELD)
The shield’s structure is reinforced, pos-
sibly with a metal rim or a larger iron 
boss, letting its wearer parry blows with 
greater ease.
♦   Add 1 to your shield’s Parry 
bonus.
ITEMS OF SUPERIOR WORTH
If a hero loses or breaks any piece of war gear during 
play, they can replace it or fix it at no cost at the next 
settlement they reach or during another appropriate 
moment in the narrative. At most, a small favour may 
be demanded, such as performing a task, or simply a 
song or tale, especially if the settlement is not of their 
own Culture.
On the contrary, items upgraded with one or more 
Rewards enjoy a degree of ‘plot immunity’, and as such 
they should never be lost, broken, or be otherwise taken 
from a Player-­hero (for example, a shield enhanced by a 
Reward cannot be smashed). 
For the same reason, they cannot be handed over to 
other Player-­heroes to use, not even in the case of char-
acter death (prized items are usually buried with their 
owners). After all, a Reward is a token of recognition 
of a hero’s renown, and that cannot be taken away or 
transferred. 

CHAPTER 5
80
virtues
They … were believed to have strange powers of sight and hearing,  
and to understand the languages of beasts and birds.
Virtues are special abilities that complement a hero’s arsenal 
of Skills and Combat Proficiencies, describing aptitudes that 
come naturally to an adventurer, or that arise through time 
and practice. Much more than simple talents, Virtues define 
the heroic stature of the Player-­heroes.
Heroes from all Cultures choose a first Virtue during 
character creation, and may choose a new one each 
time they gain a new rank in WISDOM. 
virtues list
There are six Virtues for players to choose from. Each Virtue 
can be acquired only once. 
CONFIDENCE
Overcoming difficulties has reinforced your spirit and 
renewed your faith in a brighter future.
	
♦Raise your maximum Hope rating by 2 points.
DOUR-­HANDED
 Your blows have become more forceful and your aim steadier, 
allowing you to do greater harm.
	
♦When inflicting Special Damage in combat, add +1 to 
your STRENGTH rating on a Heavy Blow, and +1 to the 
Feat Die numerical result on a Pierce.
HARDINESS
Your determination and stamina have improved through 
hardship and toil.
	
♦Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 2 points, or 
by your WISDOM rating, whichever is higher.
MASTERY
You have practised certain skills until they have become as 
natural as breathing. 
	
♦Choose two Skills and make them Favoured.
NIMBLENESS
 Your skill (or fortune?) in battle has increased with your 
growth in wisdom.
	
♦Raise your Parry rating by 1 point.
PROWESS
Adventuring is honing your inborn talents.
	
♦Lower one of your Attribute TNs by 1.
NAMED WEAPONS
Warriors and adventurers often name items of war gear 
that prove themselves worthy. This is most common with 
blades and spears, rarer with helms and shields — and 
almost unknown with armour. 
Elves and Men follow similar naming traditions, 
bestowing titles upon their weapons — such as ‘Orc-­
cleaver’, ‘Foe-­hammer’, or ‘Battle-­friend’ — that glorify 
their effectiveness in battle. However, weapons with 
loftier or more poetic names — such as ‘Snow Point’ or 
‘Cold Star’ — are almost always items of nobler lineage 
or greater antiquity, and are rarely given as Rewards. 
Weapons of worth are so highly esteemed among the 
Bardings that they often name their sons and daughters 
after pieces of war gear — ‘Bard’ can be translated as 
‘Battle-­axe’. The Dúnedain treasure their ancient blades, 
and pass them down through generations of warriors. 
Hobbits and Bree-­landers rarely give titles to their 
weapons. If they do, it is probably because such an item 
has saved their lives. In any case, they tend to choose 
simple or otherwise unpretentious names taken from 
ordinary life. 
Dwarves do not use names for their weapons at all, 
even renowned artefacts, which are most likely to be 
known by their legendary owners (such as the Axe of 
Durin). Of course, it is entirely possible that they do give 
names to their weapons but keep them secret.

Valour and Wisdom
81
cultural virtues
“I am Bard, of the line of Girion; I am the slayer of the Dragon!”
The following pages describe a number of Cultural Virtues, 
special abilities that allow for a greater individualisation of 
a hero. They represent the secret talents of the dwellers of 
Middle-­earth, and let adventurers accomplish things that are 
seen as extraordinary, if not magical, by ordinary folk. 
All Cultural Virtues describe abilities that can be 
employed under specific circumstances, at a cost, or else 
requiring a die roll — Players are advised to read each 
description carefully.
All Heroic Cultures feature six Cultural Virtues that 
can be chosen exclusively by members of that Culture, 
when they gain a new rank in WISDOM (in place of a 
standard Virtue), and only starting with WISDOM 2.
virtues of the bardings
The Bardings are Northmen of the noblest blood — a val-
iant people with a tradition of powerful kings. Considered 
lost for many long years, their ancient heritage has been 
tempered anew in dragon-­fire, and is today once again in 
capable hands.
CRAM
You have been taught the ancient recipe of cram, a biscuit-
ish cake that keeps good indefinitely, made by your folk for 
long journeys. Albeit certainly not entertaining (and in fact, 
mostly a chewing exercise), it is doubtlessly sustaining and 
very nutritious.
	
♦Each time you gain Fatigue from a Journey Event, you 
gain 1 point less. 
	
♦Additionally, when you take a Short Rest, you and all 
members of the Company regain an extra amount of 
lost Endurance equal to your WISDOM rating.
…they rested for a while and had such a breakfast as they could, 
chiefly cram and water.
DRAGON-­SLAYER
The legend of Bard the Bowman has inspired many young men 
and women from Dale, so much so that they long to prove 
their worth with the killing of a great monster. As many have 
before you, you have long pondered on the ways to deal with 
large creatures, hoping one day to gain renown defeating them.
	
♦When you are fighting creatures with Might 2 or more, 
all your attack rolls are Favoured.
“I am Bard, and by my hand was the dragon slain and your trea-
sure delivered.”
DWARF-­FRIEND
The days of the Dragon have forged a strong alliance between 
the Bardings and the Dwarves of Erebor. 
	
♦If your Fellow­ship focus is a Dwarf, whoever among 
you is fighting in a Defensive stance may attempt the 
Protect Companion combat task to benefit the other 
as a secondary action. 
	
♦Additionally, Dwarves are always considered to be Friendly 
towards you during the Interaction stage of a council.
“Nowhere are there any men so friendly to us as the Men of Dale.”
FIERCE SHOT
The Black Arrow that brought down Smaug the Dragon may have 
been fated to do so, but the hand that sent it flying so fiercely was 
exceedingly strong. When you throw a spear or bend your bow, 
you make sure that your grip is steady and your aim true.
	
♦When you score a Piercing Blow on a ranged attack, 
the PROTECTION roll of the target is Ill-­favoured.
The great bow twanged… the arrow… smote and vanished, barb, 
shaft and feather…

CHAPTER 5
82
HIGH DESTINY
Stories tell that those who belong to the bloodline of Dale 
are destined for greatness, a fact proven true by your King 
and his story. Do you share the same destiny of those of the 
line of Girion?
	
♦Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 1. The 
first time that you receive a Wound that would nor-
mally kill you — a deadly wound — you are saved 
by some miraculous circumstance that leaves you 
Wounded but alive, and you immediately raise your 
maximum Hope rating by 1 point. Then, your destiny 
is completed (you can do this only once).
“Bard is not lost!” he cried. “He dived from Esgaroth, when the enemy 
was slain. I am Bard, of the line of Girion …”
THE LANGUAGE OF BIRDS
Stories told in the North speak of how Dalemen can become 
so wise as to comprehend the speech of birds, and so by 
understanding their song be forewarned of 
impending threats, or be able to spot a weak-
ness in their enemies’ defences.
♦   You can communicate with any bird with 
appropriate Skill rolls, usually using COUR-
TESY, PERSUADE, or SONG, to receive tidings, 
deliver messages, and so on.
♦   Additionally, when you are outside, once during 
each Combat, Council or Journey, you can 
choose to become Inspired on any one roll.
“…it was only an old thrush. Unafraid it perched by his ear 
and it brought him news. Marvelling he found he could under-
stand its tongue…”
virtues of the dwarves
The reserved and surly character of Dwarves has often been 
misinterpreted by others as hostility or untrustworthiness. 
Their secretiveness has even led other folks to believe that 
they possess strange and uncanny powers.
BARUK KHAZÂD!
The secret tongue of the Dwarves is guarded as a treasure 
of the past, yet their battle-­cry is well-­known and feared by 
their chief foes.
	
♦Once per combat, when you fight in a Forward stance 
you can make your attack roll Favoured and attempt 
the Intimidate Foe combat task as a secondary action.
“Baruk Khazâd! Khazâd ai-­mênu!” An axe swung and swept back. 
Two Orcs fell headless. The rest fled.

Valour and Wisdom
83
BROKEN SPELLS
In ancient times, the Dwarves made mighty spells. You have 
been taught fragments of old enchantments that retain some 
power to this day.
	
♦Choose three Skills in which you possess at least one 
rank and mark them with a dot (or rune!) on your 
character sheet. Whenever you use any one of the 
three marked Skills, you can spend 1 Hope to achieve 
a Magical success.
…they spoke fragments of broken spells of opening…
DARK FOR DARK BUSINESS
Your kind is not troubled by mere darkness in itself, as most 
of the members of other cultures are. On the contrary, you 
have grown to like the dark better than the light, finding 
yourself at ease in its cold embrace.
	
♦When you are in the dark (at night, or underground) 
you are Inspired on all your rolls.
“We like the dark,” said the dwarves. “Dark for dark business! There 
are many hours before dawn.”
DURIN’S WAY
The Dwarves have fought many wars in deep places beneath 
the earth. You have been taught how to best defend your-
self while fighting underground. As a result, you know how 
to exploit corners, darkness, and other natural obstacles to 
your advantage.
	
♦Add +2 to your Parry rating when fighting underground, 
or in otherwise cramped quarters, like inside a building.
That was the beginning of the War of the Dwarves and the Orcs, 
which was long and deadly, and fought for the most part in deep 
places beneath the earth.
STONE-­HARD
The Dwarves were made to be strong and to endure, for they 
came unto the world when a great evil ruled Middle-­earth. 
As long as your spirit supports your strength, you can resist 
any hurt of the body more hardily than most.
	
♦Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 1. All your 
PROTECTION rolls are Favoured, as long as you are not 
Miserable.
They are (…) secretive, laborious, retentive of the memory of inju-
ries (and of benefits) …

CHAPTER 5
84
UNTAMEABLE SPIRIT
Dwarves were made from their beginning to resist any form 
of domination. You have strengthened your resolve against 
all but the most subtle of the weapons of the Enemy.
	
♦Raise your maximum Hope rating by 1 point. You gain 
(1d) on all Shadow Tests made to resist the effects of 
Sorcery.
Though they could be slain or broken, they could not be reduced to 
shadows enslaved to another will…
virtues of the elves
Elves are synonymous with magic for most inhabitants of Middle-­
earth. The word ‘magic’ itself invokes images of their grace, the 
products of their craft, and their unearthly beauty. 
AGAINST THE UNSEEN
Elves can perceive creatures that dwell in the wraith-­world, 
be they spirits or ghosts, even when they are normally invis-
ible to the eyes of the living and appear only as a chilling 
whisper of voices. You have learnt to strengthen your heart 
against such terrors. 
	
♦All your Shadow Tests due to Dread are Favoured, and 
you additionally gain (1d) on those rolls forced upon 
you by an evil spirit or ghost (including creatures pos-
sessed by one).
“I also will come,” said Legolas, “for I do not fear the Dead.”
DEADLY ARCHERY
Elves possess a natural talent for hitting the mark when using 
their bows. You have honed this talent almost to perfection, 
and your arrows find their target with uncanny precision.
	
♦When using a Bow (not a Great Bow) and fighting in 
Rearward Stance, you may attempt the Prepare Shot 
combat task as a secondary action.
…their small knives… would have been of no use against the arrows 
of the Elves that could hit a bird’s eye in the dark.
ELBERETH GILTHONIEL!
The name of Elbereth, the Queen of the Stars, is revered by 
all the Eldar still dwelling in Middle-­earth. You have resorted 
to calling on her name in moments of great need, asking the 
Kindler to bestow her grace upon you.

Valour and Wisdom
85
	
♦Raise your maximum Hope rating by 1 point. During 
the Adventuring Phase you can become Inspired on a 
number of rolls equal to your WISDOM rating.
“Elbereth Gilthoniel!” sighed Legolas as he looked up.
ELVISH DREAMS
The spirit of Elves is so strong that their bodies recover swiftly 
from many ills and injuries. As your WISDOM has grown you 
have felt less and less the need to lie down to get better. 
Instead, you can recover from your exertions while awake, 
finding repose in the secret way of your folk.
	
♦You don’t need to sleep, as long as you can engage 
in simple, repetitive activities. When you take a 
Short Rest you are considered to have had a Pro-
longed Rest instead. 
…he could sleep, if sleep it could be called by Men, resting his mind 
in the strange paths of elvish dreams, even as he walked open-­eyed 
in the light of this world.
GLEAM OF WRATH
Your folk have seen many defeats, and many fruitless victories 
in their wars against the Shadow. The deadly rage that your 
kindred harbour for the Enemy infuses your weapons with a 
gleam of chill flame. 
	
♦On a successful attack roll your adversary additionally 
loses one point of Hate or Resolve, plus one point for 
each Success icon ( ).
The Elves were the first to charge. Their hatred for the Goblins is 
cold and bitter.
MEMORY OF ANCIENT DAYS
Long centuries and uncounted generations of Men seem but 
a little while to the Elves. Your memories go back to a time 
before Eriador became desolate, and your knowledge of the 
land is returning to you now that you are traveling again out-
side the boundaries of your realm. 
	
♦When you are targeted by a Journey Event while you are 
in a Wild Land, roll on the Journey Events table as if 
you were in a Border Land, and as if you were in a Wild 
Land if you are in a Dark Land. Moreover, in addition 
to your chosen role you are always allowed to cover the 
Scout role.
“But it is not your own Shire,” said Gildor. “Others dwelt here 
before hobbits were; and others will dwell here again when hob-
bits are no more.”
virtues of the hobbits
Hobbits rarely display Virtues considered to be heroic by other 
Cultures, which partly explains their absence from history as 
written by Elves and Men. But to the discerning eye, these 
merry fellows reveal subtle qualities, often excelling in fields 
where stronger individuals might fail.
ART OF DISAPPEARING
Hobbits are said to have little or no magic about them, but the way 
they can choose to disappear quickly and quietly can be described 
by others only as supernatural. You have learnt to choose exactly 
the right moment to turn away from the attention of others, some-
times unconsciously anticipating the need to disappear.
	
♦If a location or a situation offers even the smallest oppor-
tunity to hide or sneak silently away, make a STEALTH roll: 
if you succeed, you simply disappear.
If anyone expects you to be there, it will seem as if you have 
vanished into thin air. You can choose to reveal yourself at 
any moment by simply stepping out into the open from your 
hiding place.
They possessed from the first the art of disappearing swiftly and silently, 
when large folk whom they do not wish to meet came blundering by…
BRAVE AT A PINCH
One of the Wise once said that you have to put a Hobbit in a 
tight place before you find out what is in them. You prefer to 
avoid finding yourself in one, but you are also sure you would 
be able to take good care of yourself in the circumstances.
	
♦As long as you are Miserable, Weary, or Wounded, you 
are Inspired on all your rolls.
“…he is one of the best, one of the best — as fierce as a dragon in 
a pinch.”
SMALL FOLK
Hobbits are a little people, but their resourcefulness far 
exceeds their stature. You have learnt how to exploit your 
small size to your advantage in a fight.
	
♦When you are engaged in close combat with a creature 
bigger than you (very often!) you add +2 to your Parry 
rating. Additionally, you can assume a Rearward stance 
in combat even if there is only one other Company 
member fighting in a Close Combat stance.
For they are a little people, smaller than Dwarves…

CHAPTER 5
86
SURE AT THE MARK
Hobbits are nimble and keen-­eyed, qualities that make them 
good archers. You have honed this natural talent to perfec-
tion, so much so that you just need to stoop for a stone to 
find yourself armed with a deadly weapon. 
	
♦All your ranged attacks are Favoured. If you attack by 
throwing a stone, the roll produces a Piercing Blow on 
a result of , with an Injury rating of 12.
They shot well with the bow, for they were keen-­eyed and sure at the 
mark. Not only with bows and arrows. 
THREE IS COMPANY
The Wise say that it is sometimes best to trust to friendship 
than to great wisdom. This is particularly true for Hobbits, 
as everyone knows that it is hardly possible to separate them 
from their friends. You have given your trust to your fellow 
Company members, and a true friendship has grown from 
the bond unifying you.
	
♦Raise your Company’s Fellow­ship rating by 1 point. 
Additionally, you may select a second Fellow­ship Focus.
“We hobbits ought to stick together, and we will. I shall go, unless 
they chain me up.”
TOUGH AS OLD TREE-­ROOTS
They say that Hobbits are difficult to dismay or kill, and that 
they recover their health at a prodigious pace if allowed to 
enjoy some peace and quiet. You have discovered that you 
recover wonderfully from falls and bruises (at the cost of 
some considerable pain).
	
♦When you are Wounded and must roll to determine the 
severity of your injury, you roll two Feat Dice instead of 
one and choose the better of the two results. In addi-
tion, double your STRENGTH score when calculating the 
number of Endurance points you recover when resting.
“They are a remarkable race,” said the Warden, nodding his head. 
“Very tough in the fibre, I deem.”

Valour and Wisdom
87
virtues of the men of bree
The Bree-­folk live a sheltered life, it is true; but there is 
an upside in being fond of a warm hearth and the com-
pany of friends — you know there is something worth 
fighting for.
BREE-­PONY
Bree-­ponies are very similar to their owners, the Bree-­folk — 
they don’t seem to have anything special compared to their 
peers in other parts of Middle-­earth, and yet some of them 
display uncommon courage and exceptional memory. You 
have acquired an unusually brave and intelligent beast that 
follows you everywhere. 
	
♦Raise your maximum Hope rating by 1 point. Addi-
tionally, your pony has a Vigour rating of 4 (regard-
less of your Standard of Living). 
Your pony never leaves your side. If you are forced to aban-
don it, for example to enter an underground passage, you 
can choose to find the pony where you left it when you return, 
or to have it find its way back to Bree.
Bill the pony was with them, and as before he had a good deal of 
baggage, but he trotted along beside Sam and seemed well content.
DEFIANCE
Many realms have risen and fallen in the Lone-­lands of Eriador 
since the Elder Days. Only ruins remain to mark their boundar-
ies. Yet, the Bree-­men have endured, revealing an unexpected 
reserve of strength and vigour in the face of adversity. 
	
♦Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 1. At the 
end of each Combat scene, if you are not Wounded or 
Miserable, you recover a number of Endurance points 
equal to your HEART or WISDOM score.
Few had survived the turmoils of the Elder Days; but when the 
Kings returned again over the Great Sea they had found the Bree-­
men still there…

CHAPTER 5
88
DESPERATE COURAGE
You have lived all your life on the edge of the Wild, but 
the worst news that has come to Bree in your time con-
cerned only brigands or packs of hungry wolves. You don’t 
know yet what the likes of you can do against the Shadow 
in the East, but you are sure you will stand against it, no 
matter the cost.
	
♦When you choose to spend Hope on a roll, you can 
choose to also gain 1 Shadow to be Inspired for that roll.
“Are you still willing to help me?” “I am,” said Mr. Butterbur. “More 
than ever.”
FRIENDLY AND FAMILIAR
Since you started your adventures, you have realised that 
your folk’s custom of trading with foreigners may help you in 
your endeavours. Your nice manners and friendly demeanor 
easily gain the sympathies of those you meet, and your abil-
ity to inquire about the doings of strangers, without let-
ting curiosity get the better of you, provide you with many 
opportunities to learn from those you meet along the way. 
	
♦Raise by 1 the maximum number of Skill rolls that you 
may attempt in the course of a council. Additionally, 
the folk encountered are always considered Friendly 
towards you.
…they were more friendly and familiar with Hobbits, Dwarves, Elves, 
and other inhabitants of the world about them than was (or is) 
usual with Big People.
STRANGE AS NEWS FROM BREE
It is indeed true that the affairs of the four villages are the 
chief concern of the Bree-­folk, but the most inquisitive 
among the inhabitants are always ready to gather what tid-
ings come from distant lands. You have learnt that listening 
to the strange tales that travellers often talk about can prove 
to be very precious.
	
♦During each Fellowship Phase, you receive a rumour 
from the Loremaster. In addition, if you are in the Bree-­
land, you gain (1d) on all INSIGHT and RIDDLE rolls.
Strange as News from Bree was still a saying in the Eastfarthing, 
descending from those days, when news from North, South, and East 
could be heard in the inn…
THE ART OF SMOKING
You have mastered the art of smoking pipe-­weed, and you 
always carry your pipe with you, as well as a bag of tobacco, 
for using it grants you patience and clarity of mind.
	
♦Whenever you regain one or more points of Hope, 
you recover one additional Hope point (regardless of 
whether it’s the Adventuring or Fellow­ship Phase).
And certainly it was from Bree that the art of smoking the genuine 
weed spread in the recent centuries…
virtues of the rangers 
of the north
The Rangers are what remains in the North of the great 
people that came to Middle-­earth out of Westernesse, the 
Númenóreans. Their nobility of blood is exemplified by their 
many talents, even if their number has dwindled and their 
struggle has destined them to a life of secrecy.
ENDURANCE OF THE RANGER
They say that a Ranger with a clear trail to follow can never be 
weary. You hope the saying will prove true, as it will be your 
fate to often travel in haste, to seek distant lands on urgent 
errands or to relentlessly hunt your enemies.
	
♦Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 1 point. If 
you wear a suit of Leather armour (with no helm) or 
no armour at all, and carry no shield, you never gain 
Fatigue during a journey.
“Hardy is the race of Elendil!”
FORESIGHT OF THEIR KINDRED
The Rangers of the North still possess a measure of the fore-
sight that their ancestors possessed in full. In the Twilight of 
the Third Age, this gift manifests as a sense of watchfulness, 
and of fear, arising to warn a Ranger of a danger that has not 
yet come to pass.
	
♦During an Adventuring Phase, you may invoke your gift 
of foresight a number of times equal to your WISDOM 
rating, to bestow it upon yourself or on another member 
of the Company. This gift can be spent at any moment 
to reroll all the dice involved in any one roll, whether 
made by the Player-­hero or an adversary targeting them.
“And I say to you: if you pass the doors of Moria, beware!”
HEIR OF ARNOR
The days of your folk have darkened, and not many of you 
remain; but ever the memory of the Kings is passed from 
generation to generation. An artefact going back to the 
days of Lost Arnor has been in possession of your family 
in line unbroken. Now you have been deemed worthy to 
become its keeper.

Valour and Wisdom
89
	
♦With the help of the Loremaster, use the rules on page 
161 to create either a Marvellous Artefact, or a Famous 
Weapon possessing a single Enchanted Reward and up 
to 2 normal Rewards.
“Here is the ring of Barahir,’’ he said, ‘‘the token of our kinship from 
afar; and here also are the shards of Narsil. "
ROYALTY REVEALED
Your kin belongs to a bloodline of kings, but they have 
learnt to hide from their enemies in the twilight years of 
their kingdom. Should you choose to reveal your heritage, 
your noble bearing will cause your allies to cast away their 
doubts. You reveal yourself by shouting an ancestral battle-­
cry, or unsheathing a weapon of high lineage, or by showing 
a device or coat of arms.
	
♦Once per combat, when you fight in an Open stance 
you may attempt the Rally Comrades combat task as 
a secondary action. Additionally, all members of the 
Company (you included) are Inspired on all their rolls 
in the following round.
Aragorn threw back his cloak. The elven-­sheath glittered as he 
grasped it, and the bright blade of Andúril shone like a sudden 
flame as he swept it out. “Elendil!” he cried.
STRENGTH OF WILL
You have been raised in a land dotted with desolate ruins 
and burial mounds. You have heard the dead whisper with 
cold voices out of lonely barrows, while ghostly lights dance 
on haunted hills. When your will strengthens your heart, 
there is hardly anything in this world that can dismay you.
	
♦You gain (1d) on all Shadow Tests made to resist the 
effects of Dread.
“Does he feel no fear?” muttered the Dwarf.
WAYS OF THE WILD
The Rangers of the North roam ceaselessly, hunting for 
wicked things and guarding all frontiers. For you the Wild 
has become as familiar as the road that leads home is famil-
iar to Hobbits, and the land itself may reveal useful tidings.
	
♦Whenever you are making a roll using EXPLORE, 
HUNTING, or TRAVEL, you can spend 1 Hope to 
achieve a Magical success. Additionally, you are always 
allowed to cover more than one role during a journey.
“Where sight fails the earth may bring us rumour,’ said Aragorn. 
‘The land must groan under their hated feet.”


C H A P T E R  6
ADVENTURING
  
PHASES
Even the good plans of wise wizards like Gandalf  
and of good friends like Elrond go astray sometimes  
when you are off on dangerous adventures 
over the Edge of the Wild …

CHAPTER 6
92
ight-­minded, respectable folk know that adven-
tures are disturbing, uncomfortable things. Not 
only do they make people late for dinner, but they 
often imperil the lives of those who embark upon 
them. Those few who dare cross the desolate regions of 
Eriador are another breed entirely. Some are enthusias-
tic explorers seeking the last remaining artefacts of a for-
gotten age. Others are valiant defenders of their people, 
venturing forth to push back the dark forces that threaten 
to engulf the land. 
Perhaps the most heroic of all are the common folk who 
put aside their reluctance to leave their homes to do what 
needs to be done for the greater good. They are destined to 
confront the unknown, to brave dangers deemed insurmount-
able, and face foes believed to be invincible. Such is the life 
of adventurers.
how an adventuring 
phase works
“I guess that you have been having adventures,  
which was not quite fair without me. I want a full account…”
The largest part of the gameplay of The One Ring is made up 
of a series of Adventuring Phases. As the name suggests, it is 
during an Adventuring Phase that most of the action takes 
place, as opposed to the Fellow­ship phases, where the events 
happening between adventures are described. 
During an Adventuring Phase it is the job of the Lore­
master to challenge the players, putting them in difficult cir-
cumstances, setting fiendish riddles for them to solve, and con-
fronting them with formidable opponents. The gameplay is a 
dynamic narrative, as the players take action to explore the 
situations they encounter. The Lore­master then describes what 
happens as a result of their actions, and the players again react 
to the new circumstances, and so on.
The Lore­master keeps the story flowing through a mixture 
of preparation and improvisation. (See Chapter 8: The Lore­master, 
for more about running an Adventuring Phase).
adventuring phase sessions
An average Adventuring Phase should last between two and 
three sessions of play, with each session clocking in at around 
3 hours of gaming. 
Generally speaking, every session tends to follow the same 
structure:
1.	 Introduction
2.	 Scenes
3.	 End of the Session
INTRODUCTION
Each session starts with the Lore­master presenting 
the current situation to the players. This usually 
sets a date or time of the year (when), a location (where), 
and defines an introductory situation (what) that should 
include information that allows for the involvement of the 
Company (why).
If the session is the first one of an Adventuring 
Phase, all the elements listed above are now used 
by the Lore­master to frame an opening scene. If 
it’s not the first session of play, then the opening 
scene picks up from where the Adventuring Phase 
broke off at the end of the previous session. Again, 
a date is set, a location chosen, and the present cir-
cumstances defined.
1

ADVENTURING PHASES
93
SCENES
Once a session has started, the gameplay transitions 
from one scene to another, with each scene describ-
ing a situation requiring the players to make meaningful deci-
sions. To build a coherent narrative, the Lore­master frames 
each scene based on the consequences of the previous one and 
on the choices of the players (see The Lore­master, page 128). 
Each scene can vary in duration from less than an 
hour of play time (a short but meaningful encoun-
ter), up to the entire length of the session (a council 
taking many hours of game time to be completed). 
Between a number of main scenes and secondary 
scenes, a session of play should not last more than 
three or four hours.
END OF A SESSION
When the time allocated for the game session is up, 
the Lore­master and the players face two possible 
situations, depending on whether the Company has reached 
the end of the narrative arc that sees the involvement of the 
Player-­heroes, or if more time is needed to get to the end of it.
If the session ends without the players reaching a satis-
factory conclusion, the gameplay will resume at a later 
date with another Adventuring Phase session. When 
the Company meets again, the Lore­master starts the 
new session by summarising what happened in the 
previous one. 
If, on the contrary, the current narrative arc has reached 
its conclusion, the Lore­master draws the final curtain on 
the gaming session. The Adventuring Phase is over, and the 
session of play progresses with the Fellow­ship Phase, or a 
Fellow­ship Phase is scheduled to start at the beginning of the 
next session, depending on the available time (see Chapter 
7: Fellow­ship Phases).
combat
There was a ring and clatter as the Company drew their swords.
Every age of the world has seen conflict and strife. With the influ-
ence of the Shadow extending again over the land, the choices 
to confront it without taking up arms grow shorter every day. 
That’s why combat is a frequent occurrence in the life of an 
adventurer. Frequent, but not less tragic — The lives of all mem-
bers of a Company are at stake, and they can consider themselves 
fortunate if they see the end of even a victorious fight without 
suffering from the consequences of the blows they received. 
On average, a Company will experience at least one com-
bat encounter in one out of every two sessions of play. When-
ever combat occurs, the normal flow of play is interrupted 
so that the players and the Lore­master can collaborate to 
create a tense description of how the heroes and their foes 
confront each other. 
the onset of battle
Combat is a dramatic and momentous event for any group 
of players that should not have its significance dulled by 
bland repetition. In the books, the episodes featuring 
fights and battles vary wildly in presentation, set as they 
are in diverse locations and born out of differing narra-
tive needs.
Before combat even begins, the Lore­master should 
make sure that not all battles unfold in the same way, 
basing the circumstances on the ongoing story and 
paying particular attention to the plans and prepara-
tions of the players and their strategic options. 
3
2
HEROIC VENTURES
A truly seasoned adventurer is familiar with the 
trials and challenges that accompany the danger-
ous lifestyle of a wandering hero —travelling to 
distant or unknown places, fighting dangerous 
enemies, and meeting new people or important 
personalities. 
This section offers detailed rules for those 
activities that adventurers will undertake most 
often, the building blocks of any adventure set 
in Middle-­earth.

CHAPTER 6
94
Is the Company fleeing from a greater threat and needs to 
open a way through their enemies’ ranks? Are they fighting to 
protect a place — or a person? Are they following a dangerous 
mountain path, or were they encamped among thick trees? 
Is it raining, or is the battlefield rough and snow-­covered? 
Whenever possible, the descriptive details employed by 
the Lore­master should have repercussions on how combat 
will be resolved; for example, influencing how many open-
ing volleys to allow, if any, or whether any combatants should 
be made unavailable as eligible targets for engagement (see 
page 96). 
combat sequence
Once a combat encounter is initiated, the following steps must 
be applied in order to keep the action flowing:
1.	 Opening Volleys
2.	 Close Quarters Rounds
OPENING VOLLEYS
At the start of a battle, the sides involved in the confrontation 
are still separated by a distance, potentially allowing for a brief 
exchange of volleys using ranged weapons before combat at 
close quarters is initiated. 
The Lore­master must now determine how many volleys 
to allow, if any at all, based on the circumstances of the fight 
as defined during the Onset. 
	
♦Under most circumstances, all combatants are entitled 
to at least one volley using a bow or a thrown weapon 
(a spear or a short spear). 
	
♦If the two sides are separated by a greater distance, 
then the Lore­master might allow combatants using a 
bow to let loose two volleys, or even more. 
All volley attacks are resolved as normal ranged attacks (see 
page 98). Player-­heroes carrying a shield double its Parry 
modifier if aware of the incoming attack (a hero advancing 
to join a confrontation definitely would be).
Normally, the volley exchange is resolved with the Player-­
heroes launching their volleys first, unless the Lore­master 
considers the circumstances to favour the opposition. 
When the opening volleys are completed, the combatants 
cover the distance that separates them and begin fighting at 
close quarters. 
CLOSE QUARTERS ROUNDS
Once fighting at close quarters is initiated, the gameplay is 
broken down into a cycle of rounds, played one after the 
other until the end of the battle. 
The sequence of each Close Quarters Round is explained 
in detail on the next page.

ADVENTURING PHASES
95
SURPRISE ATTACKS
A surprise attack happens when the Company is ambushed 
by a foe, or when the Company succeeds in springing a 
trap upon unsuspecting enemies (if all sides involved in 
combat are aware of the presence of enemies, skip this 
phase).
In all cases, the Lore­master must consider the circum-
stances and decide whether a test is required to resolve the 
situation or not — for example, a well-­planned ambush made 
against an enemy without lookouts or individuals on watch 
allows the opposition to attack automatically with the benefit 
of complete surprise. 
If the Lore­master considers that a roll is required, then 
the following guidelines must be applied.
THE COMPANY IS AMBUSHED: When enemies are trying to 
take the Company by surprise, all Player-­heroes in the Com-
pany must make a roll of AWARENESS.
Player-­heroes who fail their roll have been caught off-­
guard — they won’t be able to make an opening vol-
ley roll nor to take actions in the first Close Quarters 
Round.
AMBUSHING ENEMIES: If the Company is trying to waylay 
their enemies, they must make a STEALTH roll. All players 
participating in an ambush must succeed in their roll for the 
surprise attack to succeed. 
If the ambush attempt is successful, the surprised ene-
mies won’t be able to make opening volleys and lose (1d) 
on all combat rolls in the first Close Quarters Round. 
close quarters 
rounds sequence
Each round fought at close quarters follows the sequence 
set out below:
1.	 STANCE: The Company chooses their stances.
2.	 ENGAGEMENT: All combatants in Close Combat are 
paired with one or more opponents.
3.	 ACTION RESOLUTION: The actions of all combat-
ants are resolved in Stance order from Forward to 
Rearward.
STANCES
All players select a combat stance for their heroes 
at the start of each round, choosing one of four 
available options (adversaries do not choose stances: this rule 
portrays exclusively a Player-­hero's point of view).
Combat stances describe the attitude of a Player-­hero 
during a round of combat, from boldest to most cautious:
There are three Close Combat stances (Forward, 
Open, and Defensive) and one Ranged Combat stance 
(Rearward). 
The first three stances (Forward, Open, and Defensive) allow 
combatants to exchange blows in the thick of the fight using 
close combat weapons. The Rearward stance is the only one 
which allows a Player-­hero to make Ranged attacks after the 
opening volleys. 
Heroes can freely assume any close combat stance at 
the start of the round, while the ranged combat stance 
can be selected only if a number of requirements are 
met (see its description).
Certain circumstances may result in the Lore­master allow-
ing more Player-­heroes to assume a Rearward stance than 
would normally be possible — for example, if the Company 
is fighting on a narrow ledge, a mountain path, or other sim-
ilar features which makes ranged attacks easier. The same 
reasoning applies to situations where the Company outnum-
bers the opposition by at least two adventurers to one human-­
sized enemy fighter (or four adventurers to one greater than 
human-­sized opponent).
AMBUSHING OPTIONS
Other plausible Skill choices to avoid being sur-
prised include BATTLE which represents military 
preparation; or HUNTING, especially when in the 
wild or if the ambushing enemy is a wild creature.
As far as ambushing enemies is concerned, 
BATTLE is particularly appropriate when the situ-
ation involves larger groups, but only if there is 
sufficient time for careful planning. The HUNTING 
Skill is more appropriate in areas offering ample 
opportunities for hiding, and when the encounter 
isn’t expected and you have not been able to pre-
pare beforehand. STEALTH can be the best choice 
when you need to get close to your opponents, 
and when remaining silent is most important; for 
example, when the action is taking place inside 
a building.
1

CHAPTER 6
96
ENGAGEMENT
Once all players have determined their stance, all 
combatants fighting in close combat must engage 
one or more opponents (Player-­heroes in Rearward cannot be 
engaged). Using miniatures, cardboard stand-­ups, or tokens 
to represent the Player-­heroes and their opponents can speed 
up this process a lot. 
As shown in the following paragraphs, how this plays out 
depends on the number of enemies compared to the total 
number of Player-­heroes in the Company — since characters 
from either side can be killed, knocked out, or forced to leave 
the fight, altering the odds, the engagement process is likely 
to change from round to round.
FORWARD STANCE (CLOSE COMBAT)
You seek to exploit any opportunity to attack, to the point 
of exposing yourself to the retaliation of your enemies.
	
♦Your attack rolls gain (1d). All close combat attacks 
aimed at you gain (1d). 
	
♦Combat task: Intimidate Foe.
OPEN STANCE (CLOSE COMBAT)
You fight without sparing yourself, but giving proper 
attention to your enemies’ actions.
	
♦
No advantage or disadvantage.
	
♦Combat task: Rally Comrades.
DEFENSIVE STANCE (CLOSE COMBAT)
You fight conservatively, trying to protect yourself or 
others and holding your ground.
	
♦All close combat attacks aimed at you lose (1d). Your 
attack rolls lose (1d) for each opponent engaging you. 
	
♦Combat task: Protect Companion.
REARWARD STANCE (RANGED COMBAT)
You stay away from the press of the fighting to attack 
your foes from a distance.
	
♦You can attack your adversaries using only ranged 
weapons, and you can only be targeted by attackers 
using similar weapons.
	
♦Combat Task: Prepare Shot.
Player-­heroes are allowed to assume a Rearward stance 
only if the total number of enemies isn’t more than twice 
the number of adventurers in the Company. Furthermore, 
for each Player-­hero in Rearward there must be two other 
adventurers fighting in Close Combat stances.
2

ADVENTURING PHASES
97
MORE ENEMIES THAN PLAYER-­HEROES: When a round sees 
more enemies than Player-­heroes, engagement is handled by 
the Lore­master as follows:
1.	 The Lore­master assigns one opponent to each unen-
gaged Player-­hero fighting in a Close Combat stance.
2.	 Then, for each remaining foe, the Lore­master chooses 
between engaging a Player-­hero in a Close Combat 
stance who is already engaged, or standing back, pos-
sibly to attack using a ranged weapon. Enemies who 
stand back to use a ranged weapon may attack any 
Player-­hero involved in the fight.
MORE PLAYER-­HEROES THAN ENEMIES OR SIDES EQUALLY 
MATCHED: When a round sees the Company outnumbering 
its foes or matching them in number, engagement is chosen 
by the players as follows:
1.	 Player-­heroes in a Close Combat stance choose an 
unengaged adversary to face, from among those 
introduced by the Loremaster as eligible targets. 
If there are not enough free enemies to engage, 
Player-­heroes in Close Combat left without an 
adversary must engage an enemy already engaged 
by another Player-­hero.
2.	 If one or more of the Company is fighting in 
Rearward, it is possible that there will be ene-
mies left when everyone fighting in close combat 
has engaged an adversary. If this happens, the 
Lore­master chooses whether the ‘spare’ enemies 
engage a Player-­hero who is already fighting in a 
Close Combat stance, or stand back to attack with 
a ranged weapon (enemies who stand back to use a 
ranged weapon may attack any Player-­hero involved 
in the fight).
ACTION RESOLUTION
The actions of all combatants are now resolved, with 
all members of the Company going first. When all 
Player-­heroes have resolved their actions, the Lore­master will 
resolve the actions of all the adversaries involved in the fight.
PLAYER-­HERO ACTIONS: When it is the Company’s turn to act, 
all players resolve their actions in stance order, with Player-­
heroes in Forward stance going first, and progressing through 
the stances until those in a Rearward have acted (if two or 
more Player-­heroes are fighting in the same stance the order 
of action is up to the players).
When it is their turn to act, players must choose one main 
action for their Player-­hero to perform, and one second-
ary action, to accomplish before or after the main one. 
A main action is a task that requires a hero’s full attention 
— it is generally used to make an attack roll, or to complete 
a Combat Task like those described on page 102. Secondary 
actions are faster, simpler undertakings, or tasks that can be 
accomplished while focusing on a main action.
Examples of main actions other than attacking or per-
forming a Combat Task include: 
	
♦Recovering your position after a knock-­back.
	
♦Recovering your weapon, helm, or shield that was pre-
viously dropped.
	
♦Carrying a fallen comrade to safety.
	
♦Moving across the battlefield, and so on.
Examples of secondary actions include:
	
♦Advancing or retreating while fighting. 
	
♦Trying to locate someone on the battlefield.
	
♦Drawing a weapon. 
	
♦Removing a helm or dropping a shield or weapon, 
for example to reduce Load.
3
ENGAGEMENT LIMITS
Usually, Player-­heroes can be engaged in Close Combat by 
up to three human-­sized creatures or two large creatures 
(such as Trolls). Heroes engaged by multiple foes choose 
which adversary to attack when it is their turn to act.
Conversely, up to a maximum of three Player-­heroes 
may engage in Close Combat against a human-­sized oppo-
nent at the same time, while up to six can engage an enemy 
greater than human-­sized (such as a Troll). When an enemy 
is engaged by multiple Player-­heroes, the Lore­master 
chooses which opponent they attack when their turn comes.
UNENGAGED HEROES
During a combat round, it may happen that a hero 
who was previously engaged in close combat finds 
themself unengaged when their turn to act comes — 
for example, their main adversary has been killed by 
another Player-­hero’s attack, or the enemy escaped 
from the field of battle. When this happens, the hero 
is free to choose another adversary to attack in close 
combat from among the available foes (engaged or 
unengaged), keeping in mind the engagement limits 
detailed above.

CHAPTER 6
98
LORE­MASTER ACTIONS
When it is the enemies’ turn to act, the Lore­master chooses their 
actions, again in stance order (using the stance of the Player-­
hero they are attacking). The actions of enemies who stood 
back unengaged to attack with ranged weapons are resolved last.
In general terms, adversaries may perform a main 
action and a secondary action, just like the Player-­
heroes do. Often, the Lore­master will opt to have them 
simply take one main action to speed up gameplay.
The description of an adversary, and their special abilities in 
particular, should guide the Lore­master in making tactical 
choices (see The Shadow, page 136) but much can also be 
derived from the context of the adventure itself. 
What is the enemy trying to do (apart from harming the 
Company)? Are they trying to protect a place? Or are they 
looking for something, or someone? Having the sketch of a 
plan in mind can provide the Lore­master with many helpful 
twists to make combat exciting and fun. To make just one 
example taken from the stories, when the Fellow­ship was 
assaulted at Parth Galen, the Uruk Hai’s goal was to capture 
the Hobbits, not simply battle to the bitter end.
resolving attacks
Player-­heroes attack their enemies as a main action. They 
attack in close combat by fighting in Forward, Open, or 
Defensive stance, or from a distance using ranged weapons 
from a Rearward stance.
Adversaries make close combat attacks if they are engaged 
in a Close Combat stance, and can use ranged weapons only 
if they stand back and remain unengaged.
ATTACK ROLL
An Attack roll is made using the Combat Proficiency corre-
sponding to the weapon used. 
	
♦As seen on page 65, the difficulty of all attack rolls is 
based on a Player-­hero’s STRENGTH TN, modified by 
the Parry rating of the targeted enemy.
	
♦The difficulty of all attack rolls made by adversaries 
against Player-­heroes are equal to the target hero’s 
PARRY score instead. 
A successful attack roll inflicts damage on its target in the form 
of an Endurance Loss based on the weapon used, and may 
inflict additional Special Damage types based on the Quality 
of Success of the roll. Finally, attacks may cause more long-­
lasting injuries if a Piercing Blow is scored.
ENDURANCE LOSS
A well-­placed blow always has unpleasant consequences for 
its target, whether or not the hit is successful in producing 
long term damage: a combatant can be disoriented by the 
sudden pain, be winded, or be sent reeling by the power-
ful impact.
When a melee or ranged attack roll succeeds, the tar-
get suffers an immediate loss of Endurance equal to 
the Damage rating of the weapon used.
As seen previously, Player-­heroes seeing their Endurance 
decrease to match or go below their total Load score become 
Weary; if their Endurance is reduced to zero, they drop uncon-
scious instead. 
Adversaries do not normally become Weary due to 
Endurance loss, but are normally eliminated upon reach-
ing zero Endurance (for more about Adversaries in combat, 
see page 142). 
KNOCKBACK: Sometimes, an attack is so powerful that a 
fighter prefers to ‘roll with the punches’ and reduce the force 
of the blow by giving ground:
OTHER ACTIONS
Combat Tasks include a number of non-­combat 
action options, but players can always surprise 
the Lore­master by proposing something unusual 
or unexpected (this is usually a sign that they are 
enjoying the game, and the Lore­master should 
encourage it by allowing the action whenever 
possible). 
The factors to consider when resolving actions 
other than the combat actions described in this 
chapter are time, difficulty, and consequences.
	
♦Can you perform the action in one round, or 
will it take more time? The Lore­master must 
decide, but for such cases consider a round to 
last a maximum of 30 seconds.
	
♦
Does the action require a die roll? If so, both 
success and failure must have clear conse-
quences. Generally, if succeeding at an action 
will grant an advantage to the Company, 
a failure should cause a disadvantage of equal 
importance.

ADVENTURING PHASES
99
Once each round, Player-­heroes can halve the Endur-
ance loss caused by a successful attack (rounding 
fractions up) by choosing to be knocked back: they 
will spend their next main action recovering their  
fighting position. 
Adversaries cannot choose to be knocked back.
SPECIAL DAMAGE
They say that the combatant that strikes the first blow, if they 
strike it hard enough, may need to strike no more. 
If a successful attack roll produces one or more Suc-
cess icons ( ), they can be used to trigger one or more 
special results, based on the war gear of the attacker.
Multiple Success icons can be used to trigger different results, 
or the same one multiple times. 
HEAVY BLOW — ANY WEAPON: You have hit your opponent 
with great force and precision — Spend 1 Success icon to 
inflict to your adversary an additional loss of Endurance equal 
to your STRENGTH rating. Raise the loss of Endurance by an 
additional +1 if you are using a 2-handed weapon.
FEND OFF — ANY CLOSE COMBAT WEAPON: You exploit your 
successful attack to place yourself in an advantageous position 
— Spend 1 Success icon to modify your Parry rating for the 
round by +1 using Axes and all Brawling weapons, +2 using 
Swords, and by +3 using Spears.
PIERCE — BOWS, SPEARS AND SWORDS: You have hit a less-­
protected part of the adversary’s body — Spend 1 Success icon 
to modify the Feat die numerical result of your attack by +1 
if using Swords, +2 if using Bows, and by +3 if using Spears, 
up to a maximum of 10 — thus possibly triggering a Piercing 
Blow (
 and  results are unaffected).
SHIELD THRUST — SHIELD: You bash your opponents with 
your shield, pushing them back — If your STRENGTH is 
greater than the target’s Attribute Level, spend 1 Success 
icon to push back your target. The adversary is inflicted a 
penalty, losing (1d) for the length of the round (in the rare 
case this special damage is triggered multiple times, it must 
be employed to push back different opponents).
PIERCING BLOWS
During combat, fighters can see their stamina being slowly 
whittled away, as exhaustion and blows suffered take their 
toll, or they can be suddenly and unexpectedly cut down 
by a vicious stroke that penetrates through their protective 
equipment and draws blood. 
In addition to causing the loss of Endurance points, any 
successful attack may inflict a Piercing Blow.
An attack roll produces a Piercing Blow on a 10 or  
result on the Feat Die.
Characters hit by a Piercing Blow must immediately roll a 
Feat Die, plus a number of Success Dice equal to the PRO-
TECTION value of the armour worn (if the attack made the 
character Weary, the PROTECTION Test is made before the 
Weariness sets in). 
The Target Number for the roll is equal to the Injury 
rating of the weapon used by the attacker.
If the roll fails, then the target of the attack has received a 
life-­threatening blow — a Wound (see page 101). 
TALKING WITH THE ENEMY
Often, the Company faces creatures capable of speech. 
Orcs and the most intelligent among Trolls speak a 
debased version of the Common Tongue, for example, 
and Dragons can outwit in conversation even the smart-
est adventurer. This means that violence need not be the 
only way to survive a combat encounter… 
Some good roleplaying and clever thinking might 
allow the Player-­heroes to find a way out of a dangerous 
situation, for example, tricking an excessively powerful 
enemy into thinking that the heroes are much stronger 
than they really are, or by outright deceiving them. Think 
of Gandalf tricking the Stone-­Trolls, or Bilbo challeng-
ing Gollum at the Riddle Game, and then entertaining 
Smaug with a clever conversation. But a wicked Lore­
master should remember that the opposite is also pos-
sible — a cunning adversary might find a way to trick the 
Player-­heroes and lure them into a trap, or put them in a 
disadvantageous position using only words.

CHAPTER 6
100
WEAPONS:
WEAPON
DAMAGE
INJURY
LOAD
COMBAT PROFICIENCY
NOTES
Unarmed
1
—
0
Brawling*
Includes throwing stones. Cannot 
cause a Piercing Blow
Dagger
2
14
0
Brawling*
Can trigger Pierce as if it was a Sword 
(see page 99)
Cudgel
3
12
0
Brawling*
—
Club
4
14
1
Brawling*
—
Short Sword
3
16
1
Swords
—
Sword
4
16
2
Swords
—
Long Sword
5
16 (1h)/18 (2h)
3
Swords
Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Short Spear
3
14
2
Spears
Can be thrown
Spear
4
14 (1h)/16 (2h)
3
Spears
Can be 1 or 2-handed. Can be thrown
Great Spear
5
16
4
Spears
2-handed
Axe
5
18
2
Axes
—
Long-­hafted Axe
6
18 (1h)/20 (2h)
3
Axes
Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Great Axe
7
20
4
Axes
2-handed
Mattock
7 
18
3
Axes
2-handed
Bow
3
14
2
Bows
Ranged weapon. 2-handed
Great Bow
4
16
4
Bows
Ranged weapon. 2-handed
* Weapons used to make Brawling Attacks (see page 67). 
ARMOUR:
ARMOUR
PROTECTION 
LOAD
TYPE
MINIMUM STANDARD OF LIVING
Leather Shirt
1d
3
Leather armour
—
Leather Corslet
2d
6
Leather armour
—
Mail-­shirt
3d
9
Mail armour
Common
Coat of Mail
4d
12
Mail armour
Prosperous
Helm*
+1d
4
Headgear
—
* May be removed in combat to lower Load.
SHIELDS:
SHIELDS
PARRY MODIFIER
LOAD
MINIMUM STANDARD OF LIVING
Buckler
+1
2
—
Shield
+2
4
Common
Great Shield
+3
6
Prosperous

ADVENTURING PHASES
101
wounds
Most adversaries are killed outright when Wounded (see 
Adversaries, page 142). Player-­heroes, on the other hand, can 
resist being Wounded once without serious consequences, but 
risk their lives if injured a second time.
When Player-­heroes are Wounded for the first time 
they immediately check the Wounded box on their 
character sheet, and then proceed to roll on the 
Wound Severity table below using a Feat die, to deter-
mine the extent of their injury.
As seen under Resting on page 71, Player-­heroes whose 
Wounded box is checked recover Endurance slowly.
Player-­heroes who are wounded a second time (they 
receive a Wound when their Wounded box was already 
checked) see their Endurance drop to zero, they fall 
unconscious and are now Dying.
A second Wound is not recorded on the character sheet, and 
the severity roll is skipped. 
FIRST AID
Player-­heroes may reduce the severity of their injury with a 
HEALING roll. Player-­heroes who are not unconscious may 
attempt the roll themselves. 
A successful HEALING roll reduces the severity of an 
injury by 1 day, plus 1 day for each  icon scored (to 
a minimum of 1 day). 
Each hero may be administered a successful First Aid only 
once. A failed HEALING roll cannot be repeated until at least 
a day has passed, as the failure of the treatment isn’t imme-
diately apparent. 
DYING HEROES
Heroes are considered to be Dying if they are Wounded twice, 
or if they roll an 
 on their Wound severity roll (or as the 
result of some sources of injury — see page 133).
Dying heroes must receive a successful HEALING roll 
within approximately 1 hour or they will die.
If the roll is a success, their life has been saved and they come 
back to their senses in about 1 hour, at 1 Endurance. If Wounded, 
heroes must add 10 days to the time required for their injury to 
mend (minus the days removed by the HEALING roll). 
Finally, their injury leaves a permanent mark (the details 
are up to the player — a scar, a limp, a missing finger).
complications  
and advantages
The difficulty of an attack can be affected negatively by a range 
of factors — such as shooting an arrow or throwing a spear at 
long range, in the dark, fighting during a rainstorm, or while 
knee-­deep in icy water, mud, or in other difficult terrain. 
On the contrary, combatants may find themselves enjoy-
ing an advantage — such as having the high ground, standing 
on a vantage position allowing them to pepper the enemy 
with arrows, or fighting with their flanks protected by nat-
ural barriers. 
Using the examples provided by the tables overleaf, the 
Lore­master can set a level of complication or advantage, impos-
ing a bonus or a penalty to the attack rolls made by a combat-
ant involved in the fight (either a Player-­hero or an adversary).
WOUND SEVERITY:
FEAT DIE ROLL
DESCRIPTION
EFFECT
Moderate Injury
The blow received was violent enough to expose you to the risk of worse conse-
quences if injured again, but no real lasting damage was inflicted. At the end of the 
combat you will recover fully in a matter of hours (remove the Wounded box check).
1–10
Severe Injury
The value indicates how long it will take for the injury to mend, expressed in days 
(write the result in the Injury box on the character sheet).
Grievous Injury
You are knocked unconscious with zero Endurance and are now Dying (as if Wounded 
twice). 

CHAPTER 6
102
If the Loremaster deems it appropriate, a Player-­hero 
can make a BATTLE roll as their main action for the 
round to impose o remove a complication or to gain 
an advantage, based on the description of the battle-
field and the tactical choices of the combatants.
On a success, the acting player can either gain an advantage 
on their next attack roll, remove a complication from it, or 
impose a complication on the next attack roll made against 
them (again, refer to the table below for examples). The 
modifier can benefit an additional Player-hero for each 
 
icon rolled.
combat tasks
Here are described a number of special tasks commonly 
employed by adventurers involved in combat. In general, 
these tasks require a Player-­hero to fight in a specific stance 
and to succeed at a Skill roll. 
As usual, players must describe what their Player-­heroes 
are doing to achieve the effect described by the Combat Task.
INTIMIDATE FOE — FORWARD STANCE
Brave warriors fighting in a Forward stance can attempt to 
intimidate their foes, to make them waver, break, or even flee.
To do so, the acting player makes an AWE roll as the 
main action for the round.
On a successful roll, the enemy’s morale has been shaken and 
all opponents with Might 1 are made Weary for the length of 
the round. If the roll produces a single Success icon , then 
also all adversaries with Might 2 suffer the same penalty. If 
the roll produces two Success icons  or more, the penalty 
is applied to all adversaries in the fight.
RALLY COMRADES — OPEN STANCE
Fighters keeping an Open stance are always heedful of their 
surroundings, and may attempt to rally their comrades when 
the battle is wearing them out. Only one Player-­hero may 
choose to Rally Comrades in any given round.
To do so, the acting player makes an ENHEARTEN roll 
as the main action for the round.
On a successful roll, all members of the Company fighting in 
a Forward stance gain (1d) on their attack rolls in the follow-
ing round. If the roll produces a single Success icon , then 
also all those fighting in Open stance gain the same bonus. If 
the roll produces two Success icons  or more, the bonus is 
applied to all Player-­heroes fighting in a close combat stance.
COMPLICATIONS:
ATTACKER IS…
MODIFIER
EXAMPLES
RANGED ATTACK CIRCUMSTANCES
Moderately 
hindered
Lose (1d)
Standing on difficult terrain, suffering 
unfavourable weather conditions, or in 
cramped quarters.
Target is at medium range, or is under good 
cover (trees in a sparse wood).
Severely 
hindered
Lose (2d)
Almost blinded by heavy snow, knee-­
deep in mud or swift-­running water, or 
in darkness.
Target is at long range, is very small (a bird), 
or protected by darkness or ample cover 
(trees in a dense wood).
ADVANTAGES:
ATTACKER  
ENJOYS A…
MODIFIER
EXAMPLES
RANGED ATTACK CIRCUMSTANCES
Moderate 
advantage
Gain (1d)
Attacking from the high ground, exploit-
ing a favourable terrain feature.
Target is moving slowly, is big, or available 
cover is scarce.
Greater 
advantage
Gain (2d)
The defender is hindered, is blinded by 
heavy snow, knee-­deep in mud or swift-­
running water, etc.
Target is stationary, is very big (a Dragon), or 
without available cover.

ADVENTURING PHASES
103
PROTECT COMPANION — 
DEFENSIVE STANCE
A Player-­hero assuming a Defensive stance may choose to pro-
tect another hero fighting in a close combat stance.
To do so, the acting player makes an ATHLETICS roll 
as the main action for the round. 
On a successful roll, the next attack aimed at the protected 
Player-­hero lose (1d), plus another (1d) for each Success icon 
 rolled.
PREPARE SHOT — REARWARD STANCE
Player-­heroes fighting in a Rearward stance may take the time 
to aim carefully and get a clearer shot at their targets with 
their ranged weapons. 
To do so, the acting player makes a SCAN roll as the 
main action for the round. 
On a successful roll, the attacker gains (1d) on their next 
ranged attack, plus another (1d) for each Success icon 
 
rolled.

CHAPTER 6
104
EXAMPLE: 
At the Battle of Azanulbizar (or Nanduhirion, in the Elven 
speech), Náin, son of Grór, faces Azog the great Orc of Moria. 
Náin is Weary, for he has been fighting for long hours already, 
while Azog has just entered the fray. Driven by hatred and 
trying to compensate for his weariness, Náin charges into a 
Forward stance, attempting a great stroke with his mattock. 
But the monster is full of guile… using his Snake-­like Speed 
ability he makes the attack roll Ill-­favoured! Azog darts aside, 
so that the mattock hits the stone where Azog stood an instant 
before. Now that Náin has lost his balance, Azog swings his 
sword with Horrible Strength, hewing at his neck. Azog hits 
Náin with a Heavy Blow worth 12 points of damage and 
scoring a Piercing Blow!
council
‘You will soon hear all you wish to know,’ said Gandalf. 
‘We shall have a Council, as soon as you are well enough.'
Adventurers meet many travellers and wanderers along the 
road. Whenever they deal with strangers, they should exer-
cise some caution, as theirs is a trade considered peculiar and 
sometimes dangerous by the common folk. Even when meet-
ing foes of the common Enemy, Player-­heroes should watch 
their tongues and be mindful of their manners, as even trusty 
friends can be quick to anger in days of doubt.
When the Company meets one or more Lore­master char-
acters in a formal gathering, a council occurs. While much of 
what transpires in a council can be played out as a dialogue 
between the Company and the Lore­master, the rules pre-
sented in this chapter are particularly appropriate to deter-
mine the progress of a meeting and its consequences.
social encounters
Councils represent social events of extraordinary importance, 
gatherings vital for the success of the Company’s aims and 
goals that can be influenced by how they behave. The rules 
presented in this section should not be adopted for every 
verbal exchange between the Company and the Lore­master 
characters — everyday circumstances are better represented 
using the standard rules for Skill rolls. 
To qualify as a council, a meeting must be a formal gath-
ering during which the stakes are high and, depending on the 
outcome, the Company stands to win or lose something valuable.
	
♦To achieve their goal in a council, the Company must 
achieve a number of successful rolls matching its Resis-
tance value.
	
♦To accomplish this, the participating Player-­heroes 
have a limited number of attempts at their disposal 
(their time limit).
COUNCIL SEQUENCE
A council is set up and resolved applying the following three steps:
1.	 Set Resistance
2.	 Introduction
3.	 Interaction
When the council is concluded, a final step is used to assess 
its consequences (see End of a Council, page 108).
FLY, YOU FOOLS!
Player-­heroes facing insurmountable odds and 
intending to leave the fight have two options: 
1.	 They can first assume a Rearward stance, 
and then choose to escape when their 
turn to act comes. No roll is required to do 
so. The same applies to adversaries who 
chose to stand back and thus remained 
unengaged.
2.	 Otherwise, they can assume a Defensive 
stance, rolling for their attack normally: If 
their attack roll is a success, they do not 
inflict any damage but they manage to 
leave the battlefield instead. If the attack 
roll fails, the combatant remains engaged.

ADVENTURING PHASES
105
SET RESISTANCE
When the Company travels to Rivendell to petition 
Master Elrond, or asks to see the Mayor of the Shire 
in Michel Delving, they do it with a purpose in mind.
Before the council even begins, the players should all 
agree on what the Company hopes to achieve from the meet-
ing, and possibly on how to achieve it.
What are they asking for? What kind of help are they 
hoping to get? How do they intend to get it? Is there 
something they are willing to give in return — or to 
sacrifice?
The Resistance rating of a council reflects how hard it will 
be for the Company to achieve their stated goal, and it is set 
by the Lore­master at a value of 3 (a reasonable request), 6 
(a bold request), or 9 (an outrageous request).
To make the evaluation, the Lore­master evaluates the 
import of the objective chosen by the Company, in relation 
with the motivations and expectations of the folk they are 
encountering.
	
♦In general terms, a reasonable request (Resistance 3) 
is one where the encountered folk do not lose any-
thing by helping the Player-­heroes, or if the Company 
is offering something in return of approximately equal 
import. 
	
♦A bold request (Resistance 6) corresponds to a goal 
that is profiting the Company more than it does the 
people encountered.
	
♦An outrageous request (Resistance 9) happens when 
the Player-­heroes are asking the encountered folk to 
do something that is dangerous, or has scarce or no 
possibilities for reward.
1

CHAPTER 6
106
INTRODUCTION
At the beginning of a council, the Company must 
present themselves. To do so, the Company elects 
a spokesperson, possibly taking full advantage of their best 
speaker.
To introduce the Company, the spokesperson must make 
a Skill roll: the roll result determines the time limit of the 
council — that is, the total number of attempts that the Player-­
heroes are granted as a group to present their case, before 
they are finally dismissed. 
	
♦If the roll is a failure, the time limit is equal to 3. 
	
♦If the roll is a success, the time limit is equal to 4, plus 
1 for each  icon rolled.
The Skills that are particularly useful in setting up a good 
Introduction are listed below, with details of their uses and 
consequences.
	
♦
AWE — A roll of Awe conveys a powerful message 
using few words. Player-­heroes can use it to impress 
someone and overturn a negative early reaction, or to 
quickly set the terms for the coming discussion. Using 
AWE has a downside though, as the spokesperson vol-
untarily mentions the lineage, deeds and other per-
sonal information of the various members of the Com-
pany for full effect.
	
♦
COURTESY — A polite introduction is the best way to 
smooth a relationship before asking for support or 
other form of assistance. It is particularly useful if the 
Company (or at least the spokesperson) is already on 
friendly terms with the opposing party; on the con-
trary, to unfriendly ears, a courteous speaker might 
sound duplicitous. Finally, it is possible to politely 
refuse to reveal too much about the identity of 
the group.
	
♦
RIDDLE — If the Company has doubts about the 
opposite party’s intentions, the spokesperson can craft 
questions and answers in a way so as to extract a lot 
of information from others in exchange for very little. 
However, a poor performance is sure to provoke mis-
trust in the opposing party.
INTERACTION
This is the main, and most challenging, part of most 
social gatherings — from a birthday party to an 
official audience with a Lord or Lady. 
It is during this stage that the players engage with the 
Lore­master in playing out the scene, and make Skill rolls to 
accumulate enough successes to match or exceed the Resis-
tance rating of the council. 
The players choose their own course of action as they 
see fit, but their Skill rolls can be modified by the attitude 
of the people they encounter. To this end, the Lore­master 
chooses whether the audience of the Player-­heroes is Reluc-
tant, Open, or Friendly:
	
♦Reluctant — lose (1d). The encountered group has 
reasons to be unwilling to help the Company, possibly 
due to a level of prejudice or other source of concern. 
	
♦Open — (no modifier). This is the default attitude for 
an audience, representing a general inclination to lis-
ten to what the Company has to say. 
	
♦Friendly — gain (1d). The audience is very interested 
in hearing what the Player-­heroes have to say, and are 
willing to hear their plea. Maybe the Company was 
introduced by someone of note, or the spokesperson 
belongs to the same Culture as the opposing party. 
During this stage, the Lore­master keeps track of the total 
number of successful rolls scored by the Company (as seen on 
page 18, each rolled  icon counts as an additional success).
COUNCIL STRUCTURE:
At the beginning of a council, the players should focus on a goal and choose their course of action accordingly.
STAGE
DESCRIPTION
USEFUL ABILITIES (EXAMPLES)
Introduction
The spokesperson presents the Company. The roll 
result sets the time limit for the council.
AWE to impress strangers quickly, revealing much 
about yourself; COURTESY to ask for support, espe-
cially from friends; RIDDLE to extract information 
without revealing too much.
Interaction
The main part of a council. Successful rolls accumu-
late to match or exceed Resistance.
ENHEARTEN to address crowds and uplift spirits 
INSIGHT to observe and evaluate; PERSUADE to make 
a point; RIDDLE to gather information; SONG to gar-
ner approval.
3
2

ADVENTURING PHASES
107
USEFUL SKILLS: The Skills listed below can be used to various 
effects during Interaction. 
	
♦
ENHEARTEN — This Skill requires a crowd of listen-
ers, or, at least, the complete attention of a single 
individual; Player-­heroes may attempt a Skill roll using 
ENHEARTEN to raise the spirit of an endangered com-
munity, or that of a downcast leader. The objective of 
the Skill attempt must be obvious; otherwise, even if 
the roll is a success, its effect will be weak.
	
♦
INSIGHT — This Skill is useful to evaluate the emo-
tions of who the Company is interacting with, possibly 
revealing unspoken purposes or hidden feelings. 
	
♦
PERSUADE — Player-­heroes can use their persua-
siveness to win the minds of their listeners, or to 
strengthen their hold on an already-­captivated audi-
ence. Unlike ENHEARTEN, PERSUADE may be used dis-
creetly during any kind of social interaction.
	
♦
RIDDLE — This Skill can be used in a social envi-
ronment, either to formally play the ancient riddle-­
game — practised and respected even by the unlike-
liest of wicked creatures — or to gather information 
and news. In the latter case, a successful RIDDLE roll 
allows a Player-­hero to put together all sorts of tidbits 
that incautious speakers might accidentally give away 
in their conversation, or simply to gather interesting 
facts, all the while seeming to appear uninterested or 
unconcerned.
	
♦
SONG — A good song or tune is almost never out 
of place at a relaxed social gathering, but they 
can also be powerful diplomatic devices if the 
singer finds the proper song or intones well-­
chosen words.
AWARDING EFFECTIVE ROLEPLAYING
The players and the Lore­master may ask them-
selves about how much impact the interaction 
between them should have on the final outcome 
of a council. Should a good die roll be considered 
more important than a clever decision by a player? 
The right answer is to give both equal weight.
As happens with any action that implies the 
possibility of failure, players during a council 
describe their conduct, and then an appropriate 
Skill roll is made to evaluate the result. 
If the delivered speech touches topics that 
are relevant to the Company’s goal and 
that are deemed important by their audi-
ence, then the Loremaster can allow the 
Player-­heroes to gain (1d) or even (2d) on 
their Skill roll.

CHAPTER 6
108
end of a council
A council can end in three different ways:
	
♦
SUCCESS: The Company reaches the number of suc-
cessful rolls required by the council’s Resistance — the 
Player-­heroes achieve what was chosen as their objec-
tive at the start of the council.
	
♦FAILURE, OR SUCCESS WITH WOE: The Company 
scores a number of successful rolls, but fails to match 
or beat the Resistance rating within the time limit — 
the Player-­heroes can now choose to simply fail, and 
be refused what they asked for, OR, with the approval 
of the Loremaster, they can opt to achieve their stated 
goal, but at a price. For example, they gain from the 
council much less than what they asked for, or they 
end up acquiring one or more enemies from among 
their audience. The price doesn’t need to be immedi-
ately apparent, and may lead to an unexpected chal-
lenge to be faced another day.
	
♦DISASTER: The Player-­heroes fail all their available 
rolls, or score a number of successful rolls but fail to 
match the Resistance after a botched Introduction 
— The Company is now seen as a threat by the folk 
encountered — the Player-­heroes may end up being 
imprisoned, or even attacked.
journey
He then gave a full account of their journey from the time when they left Hobbiton.
A Company will often end up travelling across long leagues 
of inhospitable and unfamiliar areas in the course of their 
errands and quests. But a journey is much more than sim-
ply a means of getting to a destination. Travelling Player-­
heroes see the world outside the borders of their own lands, 
witness wondrous events, and face challenges that put their 
capabilities to the test. In short, a journey is synonymous 
with adventuring. 
Gameplay during a journey is less focused on details — 
whenever possible, everyone involved should try to avoid 
explicitly referencing the rules, and rather blend the struc-
ture into an ongoing narrative. 
Applying the rules for journeys requires the use of a 
map of the traversed region, and the collaboration 
between the Lore­master and the players to determine 
what happens along the way. 
The rules detailed in this chapter are best applied using a 
journey log (available on page 240 and for download from 
freeleaguepublishing.com), a summary sheet used to keep 
track of all the details concerning a journey. Experienced 
players might eventually find its use unnecessary, but they 
might consider continuing to use one anyway, as compiled 
journey logs work as a journal of sorts, recording the accom-
plishments of the Company of adventurers.
the map
The rules for travelling in The One Ring assume that the Com-
pany is trying to reach a specific destination. If the Company 
must visit a number of different locations, reaching each of 
them must be considered as a separate journey.
As obvious as it may seem, the members of a travelling 
Company must know at least approximately where their des-
tination is located to be able to reach it. At the end of the 
Third Age, Middle-­earth is a dangerous place, and the folks 
inhabiting it have been long sundered from each other, to 
the point that most people do not know the precise where-
abouts of places just a few days away — if they are aware of 
their existence at all.
The front end papers contain the Players’ Map, and 
represents the geographical lore of experienced 
adventurers — that is, a deeper knowledge than that 
possessed by the average denizen of Eriador.
All the locations indicated as villages or towns are places that 
the Company may choose as their destination. Not every set-
tlement that exists in the Third Age is shown on the map — 
even a sparsely populated region like Eriador counts dozens 
of unmarked villages and isolated homesteads, what remains 
of what was once a large kingdom of Men. 
Players can update their geographical lore during play, by 
making a copy of the map and writing directly on it, adding 
the places they visit.

ADVENTURING PHASES
109
the travelling company
The members of the Company assume different roles during a 
journey. A journey role summarises roughly what a Player-­hero 
is doing for the length of the trip and comes into play when 
the Company experiences an event (see Journey Sequence).
There are four journey roles to cover: Guide, Hunter, 
Look-­out, and Scout.
JOURNEY ROLES: 
ROLE
FUNCTION
Guide
In charge of all decisions concerning route, 
rest, and supplies.
Hunter
In charge of finding food in the wild.
Look-­out
In charge of keeping watch.
Scout
In charge of setting up camp, opening new 
trails.
ASSIGN JOURNEY ROLES
A travelling Company must cover all four available roles. If 
there are more than four Company members, more than 
one Player-­hero may be assigned the same role — with the 
exception of the Company’s Guide (there can be only one 
Guide, but more than one Player-­hero can stand as a Look-­
out or Hunter, etc.). Conversely, if the Company counts less 
than four Player-­heroes, then one or more adventurers will 
have to take on the duty of multiple roles (still, only one 
Player-­hero can be the Guide).
journey sequence
If a Company is undertaking a very long Journey (more than 
20 hexes), the Lore­master should split the itinerary into a 
number of legs, to be considered as separate journeys. 
Journeys are resolved by applying the following sequence:
1.	 Set Journey Path
2.	 Make Marching rolls
3.	 Ending the Journey
SET JOURNEY PATH
Using the Player's map, the Company shows the 
Lore­master the route that they intend to follow. 
The itinerary must connect the location where the 
Company is at the start of the journey, and the location cho-
sen as destination. 
When tracing their journey path, the players must con-
sider that their itinerary can rarely be drawn ‘as the 
crow flies’ — that is, connecting the starting point to 
the destination in a straight line. Instead, due consid-
eration must be given to the lie of the land. 
For example, high mountain ranges and swift-­running rivers 
can be traversed only across passes or over bridges or fords. 
Then, the Loremaster checks the map on the back end 
papers and draws the Company’s itinerary on a copy 
of the journey log, using its hex grid, as a path tra-
versing a number of hexes equal to those required to 
reach the destination (not counting the starting hex). 
The path drawn on the journey log must not necessarily con-
form to the shape of the path as traced by the players on the 
map — the only requirement is that it must be composed of 
the same number of hexes. 
This notwithstanding, the players are encouraged to anno-
tate any prominent landmarks they are traversing or passing 
by, like ruins, or river fords and bridges. Players may also mark 
those hexes that contain different types of terrains, as seen 
on the region map, to eventually facilitate the Lore­master in 
assessing the duration of the journey.
THERE AND BACK AGAIN
The rules for journey resolution have been devised 
to make travelling across the land a vital compo-
nent of gameplay, but they are not meant to be 
used every time the Company is on the road. In 
particular, they should rarely be used when the 
heroes are on their way back home. This is because 
the main effects of adventuring on the Player-­
heroes is not very relevant if the members of the 
Company are headed for a safe haven where they 
can rest without problems, or if they are travel-
ling without any concern for the amount of time 
it will take them to make the trip. On the contrary, 
the journey back should be played out in detail 
in those cases where an Adventuring Phase may 
profit from a ‘closing act’, or when reaching their 
destination was just part of the Player-­heroes’ mis-
sion — for example, if they are escorting someone 
back with them. 
1

CHAPTER 6
110
MAKE MARCHING TESTS
Journeys can be dangerous (and exciting!), as a 
travelling Company experiences along the way 
a number of events representing threats and unexpected 
occurrences. 
Events take place in specific spots along the journey 
path of the Company. To determine exactly where, 
the Guide of the Company must make a Marching 
Test, rolling TRAVEL.
As soon as the Company leaves, the Guide makes a first March-
ing Test, and counts a number of hexes along the journey 
path based on the outcome of the TRAVEL roll:
	
♦If the TRAVEL roll was a failure, the event occurs 2 
hexes away along the journey path in Summer and 
Spring, and only 1 hex away if it’s Winter or Autumn.
	
♦If the TRAVEL roll was a success, the event takes 
place at a distance of 3 hexes, plus 1 for each Suc-
cess icon.
The Lore­master finds the precise spot by counting the appro-
priate number of hexes, starting from the current position 
of the Company and proceeding towards its destination — 
the last hex reached by counting is the spot where an event 
takes place. If the Company is using a journey log, the event 
is marked on the appropriate hex.
To determine the precise nature of an event, the pro-
cedure described under Event Resolution must be 
applied (see page 112).
Once the event has been resolved, the Guide must make a 
new Marching Test to see if another event happens further 
along the Company’s journey path. 
2
event 1
Target
Event
Result
event 2
Target
Event
Result
event 3
Target
Event
Result
event 4
Target
Event
Result
event 5
Target
Event
Result
event 6
Target
Event
Result
ponies and horses 
Name 
Vigour
journey log
Year
Season
Journey from
Destination
Days of travel
the company
Name 
Journey Role
journal
Travel Fatigue
journey path
2965
We left Weathertop at dawn, heading north. 
Haldamir the R
anger guides us. He chose to keep 
the Weather Hills to our right side.
After three days, Holly, our Scout, made us change 
course, as she found a good path. The track turned 
westward across the Lone-lands, heading t
oward
s 
the North Downs and our destination... Fornost.
After three more days we ran out of provisions, and 
Folco
, 
our Hunte
r, spen
t 
a 
full day pursuing a boar 
that he alone thought was close by! Luckily, the 
ruins of Fornost were already in sight.
Haldamir
Burin
Primula
Folco
Holly
Guide
Joki
2
Look-ou
t
Willy
1
Look-
out
Old Tom
1
Hunter
Gus
1
Scout
Summer
Weathertop
Fornost
7 (shor
t-
cut)
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
Scout
Short-cut
Success!
Hunter
Mishap
Failure!
Fornost
Weathertop
Mishap!
Short-cut!
Th
e G
r
ee
nw
a
y
The
 East
 R
oad
NO
RT
H D
OW
NS
WEA
THE
R
 H
ILL
S

ADVENTURING PHASES
111
ENDING THE JOURNEY
A journey continues until the Guide’s Marching Test 
result matches or exceeds the number of hexes left 
between the Company's current position and their point of 
arrival — when this happens, the Company has reached its 
destination and the journey is over.
More specifically, a journey ends when the Company 
reaches its intended destination, and the players take 
part in a new scene, or when an unexpected occurrence 
engages the Company in a different activity for a sig-
nificant amount of time — in that case, the Loremaster 
adjudicates whether this ends the journey or not.
TRAVEL FATIGUE: Fatigue represents a deeper level of weari-
ness that a Player-­hero accumulates while travelling and that 
manifests itself fully when the journey is finally over. 
In game terms, the Player-­heroes will likely end their 
journey with a number of Fatigue points each, as a result of 
journey events. A hero’s Fatigue total lowers their carrying 
capacity and ability to function effectively. Fatigue points are 
recorded on the journey log sheet, and cannot be shaken off 
while the journey lasts. 
	
♦At the end of the journey, Player-­heroes with a mount 
first reduce their total Fatigue by their mount’s Vigour 
rating (see page 50).
	
♦Then, all Player-­heroes can further reduce their accu-
mulated Fatigue with a roll of TRAVEL. A success 
reduces the total Fatigue of a Player-­hero by 1, plus 1 
point for each  icon rolled.
Any remaining Fatigue is recorded on the character sheets of 
the affected Player-­heroes. They will get rid of it at the rate 
of 1 point of Fatigue for each following Prolonged Rest they 
take in a sheltered and safe refuge (i.e.: not ‘on the road’).
JOURNEY LENGTH: If, at the end of the journey, the Lore­
master and the players wish to know precisely how long the 
Company has been travelling, they can check the region map 
and count the number of hexes in the Company’s journey 
path, adding 1 day for each hex suggesting a hard terrain 
(hills, woods, marshes, etc.) — the resulting total is the length 
of the journey in days. 
If the entire Company is travelling on horseback, halve the 
resulting total (rounding up) to give the number of days trav-
elled (the Lore­master should consider that riding is normally 
possible only along roads and good paths — certain areas, 
like heavily wooded regions, do not allow the Company to 
proceed on horseback at all).
FORCED MARCH: The members of a Company can press them-
selves while on a journey, and march for more hours each 
day than they would otherwise dare. 
If the Company undertakes a forced march, count one 
day for each two hexes in the journey path instead of 
one, but each Player-­hero accumulates 1 additional 
point of Fatigue for each day of forced march.
3
PERILOUS LOCATIONS
A number of locations on the Journey Map aren’t marked 
with hexagons — these are areas that are considered par-
ticularly hard or dangerous to cross. These are patches 
of thick woodland, steep mountain passes, treacherous 
marshes, and other hazardous terrain types. 
In game terms, all Perilous Areas are rated for their 
dangerousness with a numerical value — their Peril rating.
When a Marching roll would lead the Company inside or 
across a Perilous Area, apply the following:
1.	 The travelling Company stops in the Perilous area 
as soon as it enters it.
2.	 Before the Player-­heroes can leave the area, they 
must face a number of Events equal to its Peril rat-
ing (all normal rules apply).
3.	 Once all Events have been resolved, the Company 
continues the journey normally, resuming their 
Marching rolls from the first hex along the journey 
path outside the boundaries of the Perilous Area.
Supplements for the game may provide special Journey 
Events Tables based on specific Perilous Areas.

CHAPTER 6
112
event resolution
Journeys can be long but uneventful, or made exciting 
by many unexpected occurrences. Using the Journey 
Sequence described in the previous pages, each journey 
may end up featuring one or more events, based on the 
length of the journey.
Once the Lore­master has identified the location where 
an event is going to take place, apply the following sequence:
1.	 Select Targets
2.	 Determine Event 
3.	 Resolve the Event
SELECT TARGETS
The Lore­master selects who will face the journey 
event by rolling a Success Die and using the Event 
Target table below. 
The table identifies the possible targets, among those 
Player-­heroes covering the roles of Scouts, Look-­outs 
and Hunters. The table also shows the ability that will 
be challenged by the journey event.
EVENT TARGET:
SUCCESS 
DIE ROLL
TARGET
SKILLS
1–2
Scouts
EXPLORE
3–4
Look-­outs
AWARENESS
5–6
Hunters
HUNTING
1
JOURNEY EVENTS TABLE:
FEAT DIE
EVENT
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED
Terrible Misfortune
If the roll fails, the target is Wounded.
3
1
Despair
If the roll fails, everyone in the Company gains 1 Shadow 
point (Dread).
2
2–3
Ill Choices
If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread).
2
4–7
Mishap
If the roll fails, add 1 day to the length of the journey, and 
the target gains 1 additional Fatigue.
2
8–9
Short Cut
If the roll succeeds, reduce the length of the journey by 1 
day.
1
10
Chance-­meeting
If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained, and the Loremas-
ter improvises an encounter favouring the Company.
1
Joyful Sight
If the roll succeeds, everyone in the Company regains 1 
Hope.
—

ADVENTURING PHASES
113
DETERMINE EVENT
To determine the nature of the event, the Lore­
master must check the map to see in which Region 
type the event is taking place, and then makes a roll:
	
♦If it is within a Border Land, the Lore­master makes a 
Favoured Feat die roll. 
	
♦If it is within a Wild Land, the Lore­master rolls one 
Feat die. 
	
♦If it is within a Dark Land, the Lore­master makes an 
Ill-­favoured Feat die roll.
The roll result is then checked on the Journey events table 
on page 112. All entries detail a type of occurrence that the 
Lore­master uses to describe what happens to the travelling 
Company, specifying precisely what happens in game terms.
More specifically: 
	
♦Each journey Event features a unique effect that must 
be resolved with a Skill roll made by a Player-­hero 
among those covering the role that was singled out as 
the target. 
	
♦All events additionally cause everyone in the Company 
to gain an amount of Fatigue points.
RESOLVE THE EVENT
To resolve the event, one Player-­hero among those 
selected as the targets must now make a roll, using 
the Skill identified in step 1; up to one Player-­hero covering 
the same role can choose to support the roll (see Support, 
page 20).
ROADS AND HARD TERRAIN: If the event takes place in a hex 
suggesting a hard terrain, the Player-­hero making the roll 
loses (1d). Conversely, if the event happens along a road, the 
Player-­hero gains (1d).
CONSEQUENCES: Each entry in the Journey table specifies 
what happens in game terms, based on whether the Skill roll 
fails or succeeds. A consequence indicating ‘the target’ con-
cerns the Player-­hero who made the roll (eventually including 
the one who gave support).
2
3

CHAPTER 6
114
FATIGUE: The rightmost column of the table indicates how 
many Fatigue points are gained by each Player-­hero in the 
Company. 
describing journey events
When resolving Events, the Lore­master should be ready to 
improvise a short scene describing what is happening to the 
Company, based on the information that the event resolu-
tion system has provided (who in the Company is facing the 
challenge, which Skill is tested, etc.) and the current game-
play circumstances. 
The aim is not only to provide the players with a narra-
tion providing context to the journey rules, but also to weave 
what happens to the Company on the road into the wider 
landscape of the ongoing gameplay.
EVENT TYPES
The following paragraphs provide a number of suggestions 
on how to improvise scenes based on all event types.
TERRIBLE MISFORTUNE: Something went so badly that the 
Company is trudging wearily and the target of the event risked 
being seriously harmed. The Hunters were injured when a 
prey proved to be too dangerous, the Scouts suffered harm 
from the extreme cold, a Look-­out fell from a tree while 
standing watch, etc.
Slowly they moved off, and were soon toiling heavily. In places the 
snow was breast-­high, and often Boromir seemed to be swimming 
or burrowing with his great arms rather than walking.
DESPAIR: The Company has been so unlucky as to have been 
subjected to a terrible ordeal, an occurrence that is most likely 
connected to the slow rising of the Shadow. Examples of such 
an experience include: the Company stumbled into a blighted 
area, discovered the grisly remains of other travellers murdered 
by Orcs, felt the chilling presence of an evil spirit, witnessed 
the passage of some powerful servant of the Enemy, and so on.
The sun, a pale and watery yellow, was gleaming through the mist 
just above the west wall of the hollow in which they lay; north, south, 
and east, beyond the wall the fog was thick, cold and white. The air 
was silent, heavy and chill.
ILL CHOICES: Failing the event caused the target much grief 
or frustration. Maybe the Scout couldn’t decide on the right 
way and lost precious sleep finding a good path, the Hunter 
worried about scanty provisions, the Look-­out feared con-
stantly about putting the Company in danger, etc.
“You give the choice to an ill chooser,” said Aragorn. “Since we passed 
through the Argonath my choices have gone amiss.”
MISHAP: Some adversity has caused the Company to slow its pace, 
or to stop altogether, and caused the target to suffer more from 
the effects of Fatigue. Anything from not having brought the 
correct travelling gear or enough provisions and having to hunt 
or fish, or having to choose a longer and more difficult itinerary.
“Rope!” he muttered. “No rope! And only last night you said to your-
self: ‘Sam, what about a bit of rope? You’ll want it, if you haven’t 
got it.’ Well, I’ll want it. I can’t get it now.”
SHORT CUT: A successful roll by the target allowed the Com-
pany to progress faster. For example, the Look-­out located a 
shorter path, the Scout opened the way quickly and efficiently, 
or a bountiful hunt didn’t require the Company to stop.
We could save a quarter of the distance if we made a line for the 
Ferry from where we stand.
CHANCE-­MEETING: The Player-­heroes encounter someone 
who proves useful to their current circumstances. It may be 
nothing more than a fortuitous encounter with other travel-
lers, or friendly denizens of the traversed region, providing 
the Company with food, water, or particularly accurate direc-
tions, but the Lore­master can take the chance to create a more 
meaningful episode involving a major character, a patron for 
example.
“…that has been averted - because I met Thorin Oakenshield one 
evening on the edge of spring in Bree. A chance-­meeting, as we say 
in Middle-­earth.”
JOYFUL SIGHT: The Lore­master must describe how the Com-
pany witnessed an exceptional occurrence, connected to the 
subtle magic of Middle-­earth and its denizens, and capable 
of lifting the spirit of those who observe it. 
Examples of such sights include: witnessing the passage 
of a company of Wandering Elves, seeing a congregation 
of Great Eagles flying high above, feeling the presence of 
a benevolent spirit in a glade or waterfall, encountering by 
chance one of the Wise and Powerful, and so on.
“Come with me, Frodo!” cried the dwarf, springing from the road. 
“I would not have you go without seeing Kheled-­zâram.”

ADVENTURING PHASES
115


C H A P T E R  7
FELLOWSHIP
  
PHASES
When winter first begins to bite 
and stones crack in the frosty night, 
when pools are black and trees are bare, 
’tis evil in the Wild to fare.

CHAPTER 7
118
eroes are not always busy navigating deep cav-
erns, fighting back the Shadow, or fleeing from 
dangers beyond their ability to face. Even the 
most eager of adventurers needs some time to 
rest, to gather their wits, and allow time for 
their hurts to mend. Whether the Player-­heroes spend it in 
pursuit of a personal goal, or simply resting comfortably to 
recover their energies before setting out on the road once 
again, the time between adventures is called the Fellow­
ship Phase.
how a fellowship 
phase works
They stayed long in that good house, fourteen days at least, and they found it hard to leave.
A Fellow­ship Phase is a gameplay instance driven by the play-
ers’ choices — while during the Adventuring Phase players 
react to the Loremaster’s storytelling prompts, during a 
Fellow­ship phase they get to elaborate upon their Player-­
heroes stories and ambitions, and to mark their adventurers’ 
progression. The Loremaster is invited to sit back and follow 
what the players have to say about their characters.
Players are encouraged to narrate in detail what they do 
during a Fellow­ship Phase, not necessarily limiting themselves 
to those activities with a direct gaming effect. For example, 
the adventurers might inquire about leads, problems, and 
opportunities that have arisen during the preceding Adven-
turing Phase. 
When they do so, the players must always keep in mind 
the length of a Fellow­ship Phase and its geographical lim-
its. Moreover, they must not introduce new background 
information — such as exploring a location their Player-­
hero has never visited before, making the acquaintance 
of personalities they haven’t encountered yet, and so on 
(in short, they should not do what is better suited to an 
Adventuring Phase). 
A Fellow­ship Phase marks the conclusion of each 
Adventuring Phase, and, as such, ideally takes place at 
the end of a gaming session. Otherwise, it can open a 
new session, and precede the next Adventuring Phase.
fellow­ship phase 
structure
All Fellow­ship Phases are structured as follows:
1.	 Set duration 
2.	 Choose destination
3.	 Perform Updates
4.	 Choose Undertakings
SET DURATION
A Fellow­ship Phase usually covers a longer period 
of time than the average Adventuring Phase. Events 
are described in broader strokes — days and weeks pass while 
the Player-­heroes relax, or busy themselves with their own 
personal work or studies. 
To give the Player-­heroes a real break from active 
adventuring, a Fellow­ship Phase should last a mini-
mum of one week, up to an entire season. 
Normally, the longest Fellow­ship Phase is taken during the 
mid-­winter festivities (see Yule, on page 120).
CHOOSE DESTINATION
Once the length of the Fellow­ship Phase has been 
determined, the players must decide where they 
will spend it. Generally, the Player-­heroes stop at a safe 
1
2

FELLOWSHIP PHASES
119
haven to spend the phase as a group, unless the year’s end 
festivities are near.
To keep the gameplay authentic, the players should 
choose a place within a reasonable distance from the area 
where the Company was adventuring during the recent ses-
sions of play, also taking into consideration how long the 
Fellow­ship Phase will last. 
The players are free to select any location the Com-
pany has visited so far. The journey required to reach 
the chosen destination is considered to take place 
‘behind the scenes’, unless the players have a mind to 
play out the details. 
Places like the town of Bree or Rivendell are the ultimate 
safe havens, as they are particularly suited to resting and the 
mending of wounds, and are inhabited by a host willing to 
welcome travellers. 
PERFORM UPDATES
The players may now spend their accumulated 
Experience Points, to improve their Player-­heroes’ 
Skills and Combat Proficiencies, and to acquire new VALOUR 
or WISDOM ranks. Additionally, the time spent in front of a 
cosy hearth while enjoying an everyday life confirms to the 
Player-­heroes that their efforts are not wasted, and restores 
their faith in a brighter future.
TRAINING: Players spend Skill points to develop their Player-­
hero’s Skill ratings, using the Experience Points Costs table 
below. They don’t have to spend all their points at once — 
Skill points can be saved to acquire more expensive upgrades 
during a later Fellow­ship Phase. Any remaining points are 
kept track of by using the appropriate space on the charac-
ter sheet. 
During a single Fellow­ship Phase, players can buy a 
maximum of one rank in each Skill. 
GROWTH: Players spend Adventure points to buy a new rank 
in either WISDOM or VALOUR, or to enhance an adventurer’s 
Combat Proficiencies. As with Skill points, players do not have 
to spend all their Adventure points at once, but can save them 
to acquire more expensive upgrades later. 
Players may buy a rank in a Combat Proficiency, VALOUR, 
or WISDOM if they have enough Adventure points to attain 
the new rating as set out in the Experience Points Cost table. 
When Player-­heroes reach a new VALOUR or WISDOM rank, 
they also gain a new Reward or Virtue (see page 78).
During a single Fellow­ship Phase, players can acquire 
a maximum of one rank in each Combat Proficiency. 
They can also buy a rank in either WISDOM or VALOUR, 
but not in both. If a new attribute value is attained, 
the scores of all related abilities and features must be 
updated accordingly. 
SPIRITUAL RECOVERY: During each Fellow­ship Phase, all 
Player-­heroes automatically recover a number of Hope points 
equal to their HEART score, and they recover them all at Yule.
Then, if the Adventuring Phase resulted in what can 
be considered a positive outcome in the fight against the 
encroaching Shadow, all members of the Company get to 
remove a number of Shadow points. 
If that’s the case, the Loremaster must then weigh the 
actions of the Company against the broader context of the 
Twilight of the Third Age, and allow them to remove from 
1 to 3 Shadow points, based on how noteworthy their accom-
plishments are deemed to be.
	
♦If the Company’s actions can be considered 
to have at least marginally interfered with the 
return of the Shadow, each Player-­hero removes 
1 Shadow point;
3
EXPERIENCE POINTS COSTS:
NEW SKILL OR COMBAT 
PROFICIENCY LEVEL
NEW VALOUR OR  
WISDOM RANK
SKILL OR ADVENTURE 
POINT COST
—
  4
2
  8
3
12
4
20
5
26
6
30
	
♦If their deeds can be considered to have actively 
hindered or damaged the Enemy, each Player-­
hero removes up to 2 Shadow points;
	
♦If the Player-­heroes have committed feats that 
would gain the attention of the Dark Lord himself, 
or at least that of one of his major servants, then 
the Player-­heroes can remove up to 3 Shadow 
points.

CHAPTER 7
120
CHOOSE UNDERTAKINGS
Undertakings are time-­consuming endeavours that 
Player-­heroes can accomplish exclusively during a 
lengthy stop like a Fellow­ship Phase. 
Players select a number of activities, based on whether 
the Fellow­ship Phase is an ordinary one, or if it’s Yule, 
the end of a year (see Fellow­ship Phase Undertakings 
on page 121).
yule
Approximately once every three Fellow­ship Phases, winter 
comes, and with it the end of the current year. Normally, the 
Company spends the entire cold season as a single, prolonged 
Fellow­ship Phase. Life in the wild is unforgiving, and adven-
turers prefer to have a roof over their heads when the wind 
is howling, and the land is buried in snow. 
In most cases, the Company disbands temporarily on 
occasion of the Yule festivities, as each Player-­hero takes the 
chance to return home and enjoy some time among family 
and folk. Three months are enough for any Player-­hero to 
return home from any location other than the most remote.
THE PASSAGE OF THE YEARS
When Yule comes, it means that all Player-­heroes have aged 
one year. Luckily, time does not only slay kings and ruin towns, 
but may bring wisdom — the time the Player-­heroes spend 
without adventuring allows them to reflect on their experi-
ences, and possibly learn from their mistakes:
During Yule, all Player-­heroes recover all Hope. They 
also earn a number of bonus Skill points equal to 
their WITS rating, and add this amount to the total 
they accumulated during the last Adventuring Phase.
Then, the Loremaster should take the chance offered by a 
Yule Fellow­ship Phase to update the Company on the changes 
that are taking place in the world and that their Player-­heroes 
should know about. To this end, the Loremaster may use the 
information contained in the setting chapter to determine 
what news reaches the ears of the Player-­heroes, tailoring the 
information based on the current circumstances and where-
abouts of the Company. 
Keeping the Company up-­to-­date with important news 
is a way to insert background elements into the next Adven-
turing Phase.
4

FELLOWSHIP PHASES
121
fellow­ship phase 
undertakings
This section lists the various activities available to the Com-
pany during a Fellow­ship Phase. Players select a different 
number of undertakings, based on whether the Fellow­ship 
Phase is an ordinary one, or if it’s Yule — the end of a year.
	
♦During an ordinary Fellow­ship Phase, the Company as 
a group chooses one single undertaking. 
	
♦During a Yule Fellow­ship Phase, each player chooses 
one undertaking instead. 
	
♦Finally, during each Fellow­ship Phase (ordinary or 
Yule), the Company is entitled to choose one addi-
tional undertaking, selecting it among those that 
are listed as free, based on the Callings represented 
among the Player-­heroes.
To sum things up, during an ordinary Fellow­ship Phase the 
Company will choose a maximum of two undertakings, and 
a number of undertakings equal to the number of Player-­
heroes plus one during Yule. Players must always select dif-
ferent undertakings, unless they are marked as Yule activ-
ities — such endeavours can be chosen by any number of 
Player­-­heroes.
GATHER RUMOURS
When they appeared they brought news from afar, and told strange 
forgotten tales which were eagerly listened to…
News of strange things happening in the world are multiplying 
with every passing year. Tidings of a gathering darkness, of 
distant wars, and of the flight of the Elves — vague legends 
and old songs are proving to be more than just children’s 
stories. Player-­heroes gathering rumours try to separate facts 
from fireside-­tales, and to gather stories that may prove use-
ful in their adventures.
Choose this undertaking to receive a rumour from 
the Loremaster. 
A rumour can be a story about an individual, a place, or a 
coming event, pointing specifically to something that the 
Company can explore, prevent, or aspire to achieve. Oth-
erwise, a rumour can be something specific that the Player-­
hero is inquiring about, and directly related to the current 
adventuring circumstances of the Company.
A Company including a Warden can choose this activity 
as a free Undertaking.
HEAL SCARS (YULE)
“Is it not a strange fate that we should suffer so much fear and doubt 
for so small a thing?”
Heroes feel the burden of the Shadow weigh heavily upon 
their shoulders long after their adventures are over. Their 
minds remain bent on dark thoughts, and visions haunt them 
in their dreams, if not even during their waking hours. Only 
the passage of time can heal such wounds. 
Choose this undertaking to focus on mending your 
spiritual injuries — spend 5 Adventure points and 
remove 1 Shadow Scar (see Harden Will, page 137).
Player-­heroes from different Cultures resort to different meth-
ods to get rid of their scars. Dwarves often turn to the forge 
to burn out their frustration, smiting the red iron on the 
anvil, Hobbits dedicate themselves to a beloved activity, like 
gardening, or painting, and Elves and Men generally create, 
play, or recite poems and songs.
MEET PATRON
Elrond, as was his custom, sat in a great chair at the end of the 
long table upon the dais…
After a few years of adventuring, the Company will probably 
count several of the Wise and the Great among their allies. 
Some of these can be chosen as Patrons of the Company 
(see page 52).
Choose this undertaking to meet one of the Compa-
ny’s friends and allies when spending the Fellow­ship 
Phase in a location where that individual can be found, 
and if the Patron is available for a meeting. 
When this is the case, the Loremaster can work with the 
Player-­hero to set up the encounter. The reasons to see a 
patron vary based on the current circumstances of a campaign, 
CHANGE USEFUL ITEMS
In addition to the various endeavours they may 
achieve, during each Fellow­ship Phase the players 
are free to change the selection of their Player-­
heroes’ Useful Items (always respecting the max-
imum number of items allowed by their current 
Standard of Living).

CHAPTER 7
122
but generally revolve around the 
Player-­hero asking for some sort 
of assistance, possibly accepting a task 
requested by the patron in return. 
The descriptions of the various person-
alities given on page 212 give directions on 
how to handle their introduction as patrons 
in the game. 
A Company including a Messenger can 
choose this activity as a free Undertaking.
PONDER STORIED AND 
FIGURED MAPS
“There are many maps in Elrond’s house, but I sup-
pose you never thought to look at them?”
Middle-­earth has changed since the time when 
lore-­masters spent long hours drawing maps of 
every known corner of the world. Today’s maps show 
mostly white spaces beyond the borders of the realms 
of Men, Dwarves, and Elves. Yet, looking at them is time 
well-­spent for a travelling hero. 
A Player-­hero choosing this undertaking stud-
ies every map and scroll of lore they can find, to 
learn as much as possible about the perils the 
Company may face while on a journey. 
Until the next Fellow­ship Phase, apply a modifier of 
+1 to all Feat die rolls made to determine the nature of 
events during the Event Resolution step of a Journey.
A Company including a Scholar can choose this activity as a 
free Undertaking.
RAISE AN HEIR (YULE)
When Bilbo was ninety-­nine he adopted Frodo as his heir, and 
brought him to live at Bag End…
Wise adventurers sooner or later realise that all they have done 
in their lives can avail to nothing if they meet an untimely end. 
To avoid squandering their legacy, they should spend some 
money and time choosing and raising a worthy successor.
Choose this undertaking to spend up to 5 Treasure and 
an equal number of Adventure points to add to your 
heir’s starting Previous Experience reserve: for each 
Adventure point spent, raise the reserve by 1.
If this is the first time that this undertaking has been chosen, 
the player must also choose a name for the designated heir, 
writing it down on the character sheet (see page 56 for more 
details about raising an heir).
RECOUNT A STORY (YULE)
To some there Bilbo’s tale was wholly new, and they listened with 
amazement while the old Hobbit, actually not at all displeased, 
recounted his adventure with Gollum, at full length.
Adventures have a meaning for those who live them, but they 
can become cautionary tales for others. Player-­heroes give a 
personal account of an event they took part in, describing 
the episode to members of their own folk in a public place 
or event, or recording it in a book. Players are encouraged 
to improvise a short narration.
Choose this undertaking to replace one of your Distinc-
tive Features with a new trait, choosing a quality that 
you displayed in the narrated episode.
Players can choose a trait from the list of Distinctive Features 
on page 67, or even propose a new one of their own creation.
STRENGTHEN FELLOW­SHIP
“…in this matter it would be well to trust rather to their friendship 
than to great wisdom.”
The bond shared by the members of a Company is put to the 
test by the odds they face in the course of their adventures, 

FELLOWSHIP PHASES
123
and can be reinforced when the Player-­heroes are enjoying a 
moment of respite.
Choose this undertaking to raise the Fellow­ship rating 
by +1 until the next Fellow­ship Phase.
A Company including a Captain can choose this activity as a 
free Undertaking.
STUDY MAGICAL ITEMS
“This is an heirloom of our house,’ said Éowyn. ‘It was made by the 
Dwarves, and came from the hoard of Scatha the Worm.”
When heroes come into possession of a strange ring, an 
ancient jewel, or a rune-­scored staff, they might not know 
much about their properties, especially if they are not imme-
diately observable. 
Choose this Undertaking to learn all there is to be dis-
covered about the qualities of all Marvellous Artefacts 
and Wondrous Items in the Company’s possession.
A Company including a Treasure Hunter can choose this 
activity as a free Undertaking.
WRITE A SONG
And then one would sing amid the gloom some staves of the Lay of 
Nimrodel, or other songs of the Vale of Anduin out of vanished years.
All Cultures of Middle-­earth play and sing songs to remember 
things that are fair and to celebrate life. 
Choose this Undertaking to compose a song, choos-
ing whether it will be a Lay, a Song of Victory, or a 
Walking-­song.
The new composition is added to a Company’s list of songs 
— this list is used to keep track of which songs are available 
to the Company to sing during an Adventuring Phase (see 
Singing Songs, above). 
The player is encouraged to come up with a song title, 
or its lyrics, for example taking inspiration from events 
that occurred to the Company, or focusing on one or more 
Player-­heroes.
A Company including a Champion can choose this activ-
ity as a free Undertaking.
LAY (COUNCILS): A Player-­hero creates a short narrative 
poem, particularly appropriate to narrate heroic deeds, 
and meant to be recited or sung at gatherings.
SINGING SONGS
When the Company is involved in a Council, Com-
bat or Journey, the Player-­heroes may sing a song 
and rouse themselves to pursue their goals with 
renewed strength of purpose.
To do so, first choose a song from among 
those on the Company’s song list that is 
appropriate to the current venture (Com-
bat, Journey or Council). Then, make a 
SONG roll. Heroes succeeding in the roll 
ignore the effects of being Weary for the 
length of the heroic venture (singing a 
song in combat is considered a second-
ary action). 
Each song may be used by the Company once for 
each Adventuring Phase. Mark a song off the list 
once it has been spent. A song must be marked 
off whether it has been used successfully or not.
SONG OF VICTORY (COMBAT): Warriors sing stirring songs 
in combat, to lift their spirit and renew their lust for battle.
WALKING-­SONG (JOURNEY): Travellers trudging along the 
final hours of a long day of travelling may find it helpful to 
hum a merry song, especially when they are drawing near to 
their destination.


C H A P T E R  8
THE LORE­MASTER
It appeared that Gandalf had been to a great council 
of white wizards, masters of lore and good magic…

CHAPTER 8
126
n the game world, a lore-­master is an individual steeped 
in the Old Lore of the many Cultures of Middle-­earth. In 
The One Ring, the player taking the mantle of the Lore­
master is the one assuming the task of managing all the 
elements of the game that do not fall under the authority of 
the players portraying the heroes.
This section of the volume is dedicated to defining the 
role of the Lore­master. It contains advice on how to play this 
fundamental role, and adds a number of rules necessary to 
play the game from the point of view of the Lore­master. 
If you are not taking the role of the Lore­master, you 
do not need to read from this point onwards. 
running the game
“…there is nothing more that I can do to help it. The board is set, and the pieces are moving.”
One of the most enjoyable features of all roleplaying games 
is the creative collaboration between the Lore­master and 
the players. But while the players are exclusively in charge of 
their own characters, the Lore­master is responsible for such 
things as the description of locations, the behaviour of the 
people and creatures encountered, and the consequences of 
the actions of all characters involved in a situation. 
In gaming terms, the Lore­master is tasked with struc-
turing the gameplay, by presenting each scene of an 
Adventuring Phase.
handling scenes
As seen in Chapter 6, the gameplay of The One Ring occurs 
over a series of scenes. 
Scenes represent meaningful episodes in the lives of 
the Player-­heroes, situations putting their decisions 
and actions to the front and centre. 
Anything happening in the game world that isn’t directly 
related to the Player-­heroes happens ‘behind the scenes’, and 
thus should not be the object of a scene.
Not all scenes in a session are the same — some take the 
best part of a gaming session, as they focus on the Player-­
heroes’ attempts at achieving their objectives. Other scenes 
of lesser import are simply used to describe what happens 
between one main scene and another, when the Company 
enjoys a moment of respite or is busy planning what to do 
next. 
The Lore­master is responsible for the framing of each 
main scene, while many details relating to the framing 
of secondary scenes can be left to the players.
From the point of view of the Lore­master, a typical session 
can be summarised as follows: 
1.	 The Lore­master presents each main scene to the play-
ers, framing the situation from the point of view of the 
Player-­heroes; the players react to the circumstances, 
considering their options and then describing the 
actions of their Player-­heroes; 
2.	 The Lore­master describes the consequences of the 
players’ actions; 
3.	 Finally, the Lore­master advances the gameplay, either 
further developing the current scene, or wrapping it 
up and proceeding to frame a new one.

THE LOREMASTER
127
FRAMING A SCENE
The Lore­master frames each scene, describing 
where it is taking place, setting the time of the day, 
and finally determining who is involved in it — this is the role 
of the Lore­master as Director (see page 128). 
Once a scene is set, the players react to it, focusing on 
the goals they are pursuing and coming up with plans to 
achieve them.
While the Lore­master is in charge of framing a scene, 
it is completely up to the players to decide how their 
Player-­heroes intend to approach the situation that 
the scene described.
For example, they may choose a course of action that is risky 
but promises a higher reward, or may prefer to play it safe 
and proceed with caution.
DESCRIBE THE CONSEQUENCES 
OF THE PLAYERS’ ACTIONS
Once the players have made their decision and have 
described their course of action, the Lore­master and the 
players employ the rules for Action Resolution and Heroic 
Ventures to manage all situations and conflicts — this is the 
role of The Lore­master as Referee (see page 128). 
The Lore­master assists the players when they choose 
actions for their characters to accomplish, calls for die 
rolls when required, and describes the consequences of 
those rolls. 
To advance the gameplay in a way that follows the 
choices of the players, the Lore­master must make sure 
that the consequences of all actions, whether they suc-
ceed or not, are given an appropriate narrative weight. 
Additional guidelines about how to determine the conse-
quences of the actions of the players are presented on page 
130. 
ADVANCE THE GAMEPLAY
The Lore­master adds new narrative elements to 
the gameplay as necessary, driven by the actions of 
the players and their consequences — this is the role of The 
Lore­master as Narrator (see page 129).
Taking into consideration what the players have done, 
the Lore­master develops several options about where 
the current situation may lead, to set up a follow-­up 
scene in an organic way.
1
2
3
SCENE EDITS
Scenes do not necessarily happen one after the 
other. A scene following another that was just 
played does not have to take place immediately 
after the one preceding it, nor must it take place 
in a location that is nearby. 
If a long stretch of game time passes from one 
scene to another, the Lore­master can describe 
what happens in the meantime as a cinemato­
graphic montage, while if the action moves to a 
location far away, the Lore­master should consider 
using the rules for journeys.

CHAPTER 8
128
These options are not for the Lore­master to choose from — 
to give the players the opportunity to make real decisions, 
multiple options must always be presented as viable choices. 
The last thing a Lore­master should do is railroad players 
and make them conform to a pre-­made idea of how a game 
should progress.
Sometimes, the Lore­master may insert new narrative 
elements that are not connected to what has trans-
pired so far. These events may be part of a series of 
‘scripted’ events, or tied to a chronology or the agenda 
of a Lore­master Character.
the middle-­earth 
lore­master
“This Mithrandir was, I now guess, more than a lore-­master:  
a great mover of the deeds that are done in our time.”
The most important task of a Lore­master is to act as the inter-
face between the players and Middle-­earth. Evoking the right 
mood is essential in order to give the players the feeling that 
they are taking part in the unfolding events composing the 
Twilight of the Third Age. 
It can seem a daunting prospect at first, but being the 
Lore­master is an immensely satisfying role for a ­Tolkien 
enthusiast, a chance to experience the world of Middle-­earth 
as its own creator did — by orchestrating all the elements of 
the setting to produce new epic tales.
the qualities of a 
lore­master
The Lore­master’s duties can be broken down into three roles: 
Director, Referee, and Narrator. 
THE LORE­MASTER AS DIRECTOR
When framing each scene of an Adventuring Phase, it is use-
ful to think of the job of the Lore­master as being similar to 
that of a theatre or movie director — choosing and arranging 
the basic elements of the ‘stage’ that the characters will act 
on during the next session of play. 
The Lore­master should not think of framing a scene 
as a complicated process — it is really simply about 
selecting a location, setting the time of the day, and 
describing who is present, including any minor or 
major Lore­master Characters (see page 185). Details 
are important, for example what the weather is like, 
but they should not clutter a description — everything 
can be expanded on later, once the players start 
exploring the scene, asking questions.
What is important is that the Lore­master doesn’t have to worry 
about telling a story, but only needs to provide the players 
with its basic ingredients. It is up to the players to pick them 
up, and compose them into a full-­blown narrative through 
their choices and actions.
To facilitate this process, when framing a scene the Lore­
master should consider including some immediate prompts 
to action. Usually, such prompts take the form of visible or 
otherwise obvious hurdles obstructing their path. An obsta-
cle can be some form of active, direct opposition (from an 
adversary or a Lore­master character, for example) or be the 
result of ‘in-­world’, natural circumstances or threats, like bad 
weather conditions.
CONSISTENCY: The key to successfully ‘directing’ a game 
of The One Ring is being able to weave descriptions that are 
always consistent, taking into consideration the lore and all 
the disparate elements that emerge from the gameplay ses-
sion after session — the goals and ambitions of the members 
of a Company, the places they visit, and the people they meet.
To achieve this, a good level of familiarity with the source 
material comes in extremely handy. Chapter 9 presents details 
about the events, locations, and characters that compose the 
default setting for The One Ring.
THE LORE­MASTER AS REFEREE
Roleplaying games combine game rules with a set of 
social and storytelling conventions. While these conven-
tions place roleplaying games outside the constraints of 

THE LOREMASTER
129
traditional board or card games (which are defined solely 
by their rules), the correct application of the game mechan-
ics depends on one essential element to work to their full 
potential: the presence of an impartial moderator — the 
Lore­master. 
The Lore­master must be ready to adjudicate the rules 
at all times, whether testing the mettle of the Player-­
heroes during the Adventuring Phase, or helping play-
ers determine the outcome of their choices during the 
Fellow­ship Phase.
FAIRNESS: Acting as a referee, a Lore­master should strive to 
be fair and to apply the rules properly and impartially. The 
game mechanics are designed to provide players with a chal-
lenge, and to determine whether their Player-­heroes are up 
to the test or not; to reward them with success if they are, or 
to make their lives more complicated (and interesting!) with 
the consequences of failure if they are not.
A biased Lore­master can easily ruin a game, as an unfair 
call when applying a rule brings the rules themselves to 
the players’ attention, and their immersion in the game is 
disrupted.
THE LORE­MASTER AS NARRATOR
As we have seen already, if playing a roleplaying game can 
create a story, that story arises from the interaction of the 
Lore­master’s descriptions with the choices of the players. 
This means that the Lore­master should not prepare too 
much beforehand, to try and force a prewritten plot into 
the gameplay. 
It is easier, and probably wiser, for the Lore­master to 
set up each session as if it was a separate episode of a 
longer, semi-­improvisational narrative, with each new 
one building organically upon the consequences of 
the previous sessions.
This does not mean that the Lore­master should solely impro-
vise. In fact, each Adventuring Phase should feature one or 
more overarching ‘schemes’, pivotal plot elements that help 
the Lore­master to come up with new ideas to advance the 
narrative. 
In a way, Schemes are the objectives of the Company’s 
enemies, managed by the Lore­master, to establish opposition 
to the actions of the players (published material for The One 
Ring presents Schemes as an integral part of their premise 
and text).
ADAPTABILITY: A quick and rich imagination and the will-
ingness to adapt is a precious quality in a Lore­master, as it 
makes it easier to integrate the actions of the players with 
the narrative. 
The Lore­master should never forget that the Player-­
heroes are the protagonists of their story, and their choices 
must always produce tangible effects within the game world. 
canon and the lore­master
Fans of the literary works of J.R.R. ­Tolkien have long debated 
the existence of a consistent canon — as described in The 
Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and later publications — that 
firmly defines the world and history of Middle-­earth. This 
has often been cited as one of the major hurdles to roleplay-
ing games set in Middle-­earth, claiming as it does that the 
Player-­heroes’ adventures will ‘interfere’ with the actions 
of the sagas’ known protagonists and ‘break’ the canon’s 
consistency.
The quick and easy answer to such concerns is that ‘there 
is no such thing as an established ­Tolkien canon’; however, it 
is interesting to delve a little further into the subject, because 
a Lore­master can learn a great deal from tackling this appar-
ently insurmountable obstacle.
AN ‘UNRELIABLE NARRATOR’
One of the ways a Lore­master can deal with the dilemma of 
altering facts perceived to be part of the ­Tolkien canon is to 
consider the information in the stories not as the words of an 
infallible, all-­knowing narrator, but those of witnesses to the 
events — individuals who are subject to errors and personal 
bias (for example, The Hobbit relates the content of Bilbo 
Baggins’ memoirs). 
This literary device served ­Tolkien well as he strove to 
create a believable ‘ancient history’ which included the inev-
itable inconsistencies that arise in a narrative composed by 
different chroniclers over time, and there is no reason why a 
Lore­master cannot do the same, especially if there is a need 
to change an ‘established’ date or the details behind a known 
‘fact’ or ‘historical’ figure. 
To get an idea of how much the perspective of an unre-
liable narrator can distort perceptions — and possibly facts 
— one need look no further than the books themselves. 
Readers of The Lord of the Rings often find it difficult to rec-
oncile the image of Gimli, the redoubtable axe-­wielding 
warrior of Erebor, with the Dwarven companions of Bilbo 
in The Hobbit, who, captured by Trolls, Goblins, Spiders, and 
Wood-­elves, more often than not end up being saved by 
their Hobbit burglar.

CHAPTER 8
130
FILLING IN THE BLANKS
­Tolkien wove a rich narrative tapestry, composed of believ-
able characters set against a vivid landscape and driven by 
motivations firmly grounded in myth and tradition. But even 
such an extensive and intricate chronicle does not thoroughly 
explore every nook and cranny of this imagined world and 
time period — far from it. As the narrative focus of the books 
shifts from one region to another, many locations and the 
events related to them remain obscure and are only briefly 
touched upon. 
The ‘filling-­in-­the-­blanks’ approach — based on the con-
cept that the sagas are told from the subjective perspective 
of their protagonists, who are not familiar with every corner 
of Middle-­earth — gives every Lore­master the freedom to 
create their own stories. 
The setting material provided in this guide and in the var-
ious supplements for the game is an example of this. Many of 
the events occurring in the chosen time frame — the years 
covering the period from the discovery of the Ring to its 
destruction — are briefly mentioned in the source materials, 
and are therefore open for development and interpretation.
IT IS ALL ABOUT THE CHARACTERS
Another interesting view on canon comes from the author 
himself. While certainly very protective of his own creations 
in general, J.R.R. ­Tolkien stressed several times that what was 
ultimately dear to him was the integrity of his characters and 
their motivations, more than the preservation of his plots or 
other elements. 
By applying this perspective to a game of The One Ring, it 
is clear that the game will remain true to its literary sources 
if the Lore­master pays due attention to the treatment of the 
canonical characters, and if the players strive to create and 
play plausible heroes.
LAST, BUT NOT LEAST…
Nowadays, the bulk of ­Tolkien’s Middle-­earth-­related publi-
cations give the impression of an immutable and consistent 
corpus. But when the author was alive, he was constantly 
rewriting and rearranging his own material, even making 
substantial changes to be inserted in new, revised editions of 
his books. Some of these changes corrected inconsistencies, 
but more often than not they were introduced to accommo-
date later plot changes and developments. 
For this reason, it is not unreasonable to assume that even 
­Tolkien himself looked at his own work as being mutable — 
that even the chronologies he himself carefully created were 
to be considered provisional at best and not restricted to or 
bound by an established canon.
Taking everything into consideration, a Lore­master 
should not feel intimidated by the source material; rather, 
they should push ahead and add their own story threads to 
Professor ­Tolkien’s wonderful and epic narrative tapestry.
tools for the lore­master
“Quite simple. Too simple for a learned lore-­master in these suspicious days.”
The following section presents a number of rules that the 
Lore­master will find helpful when running the game. They 
add a layer of meaning to die rolls and especially to their 
consequences.
	
♦The Consequences of Failure section aims to help the 
Lore­master in adding variety to the result of the play-
ers’ bad rolls;
	
♦Skill Endeavours details how to handle complicated 
actions that require more than a single roll to be 
completed;
	
♦Finally, the Sources of Injury section gives substance 
to failures causing harm to the Player-­heroes outside 
of combat.
the consequences 
of failure
The rules for actions seen on page 17 allow players to deter-
mine what they get when they succeed at their die rolls — fail-
ing normally indicates that something went wrong and that 
the Player-­heroes didn’t obtain what they wanted. 
Often things are not so clear-­cut, though. While most 
instances may be so tranquil that even failing a roll doesn’t 
spell complete failure, sometimes the circumstances sur-
rounding a Skill roll are so adverse that a failure means that 
something bad happened.
To give Skill rolls an additional layer of description, 
the Lore­master may choose a Risk level.

THE LOREMASTER
131
There are three Risk levels, making an action either Standard, Haz-
ardous, or Foolish. When setting a Risk level higher than standard, 
the Lore­master should always warn the players that what they are 
attempting is more dangerous, describing what actually makes the 
action particularly hazardous, so that the players can see more 
clearly the potential consequences of what they are about to do.
	
♦
STANDARD ACTIONS — Player-­heroes making a Stan-
dard roll are performing under a limited level of pres-
sure or risk, and thus exert a higher control over their 
circumstances. 
	
♦
HAZARDOUS ACTIONS — Player-­heroes attempting 
a Hazardous roll are attempting something daring, 
accepting the risk of suffering serious negative conse-
quences upon a failure.
	
♦
FOOLISH ACTIONS — Attempting something Fool-
ish and failing is sure to result in grievous negative 
consequences.
The table above and the following paragraphs illustrate in detail 
the consequences of failure corresponding to each Risk level.
SIMPLE FAILURE, OR SUCCESS WITH WOE
At a Standard Risk level, at the Lore­master‘s discretion, the 
acting Player-­hero can simply fail, or be offered the chance 
to trade failure for a success marred by a negative occurrence.
Succeeding with Woe means that the acting Player-­
hero succeeds, but at the cost of an unexpected incon-
venience that devalues the performance, reducing its 
overall result, or that carries a negative side effect.
EXAMPLE: 
A Player-­hero jumping across a chasm makes it to the other 
side but drops a weapon or shield; the Dragon didn’t sniff 
out the sneaking hero but moved in his sleep and now blocks 
the exit; the intricate Dwarven lock has been opened, but the 
magical key used to unlock it is stuck.
FAILURE WITH WOE
The acting Player-­hero fails, and an additional serious neg-
ative event adds a new concern that will need attending to. 
EXAMPLE: 
Prey escaping a hunter wails, risking attracting the attention 
of more dangerous creatures; an Orc-­guard spots the hiding 
Player-­hero and now is running to sound an alarm bell; 
the group of ruffians the Player-­hero wanted to intimidate 
now draw their blades.
DISASTER!
The attempt results in disaster! Not only does the roll not 
achieve its objective, but it causes a grievous negative event 
to take place. Unlike failure with woe, the negative effects of 
a disastrous roll cannot be prevented. 
EXAMPLE: 
A hero climbing a tree to spy upon an Orc encampment 
falls into the middle of the assembled enemies; the purse the 
Player-­hero was trying to steal from the Troll’s pocket sounds 
a warning and the hero is caught.
skill endeavours
Sometimes a simple die roll falls short in describing the 
dynamics behind a complex task. This happens when an 
action is better described as a series of smaller feats, with 
each successful attempt bringing the Company closer to the 
accomplishment of the overall task. 
Examples of Skill Endeavours include undertakings like 
searching a wide area for clues or fortifying a steading before 
nightfall, following the tracks of a band of marauding Orcs 
RISK LEVELS:
RISK LEVEL
THE FAILED ROLL RESULTS IN A…
EXAMPLES
Standard
Simple Failure, OR Success with Woe
Eluding the watch of a Bounder in the Shire, entertaining a 
crowd of inebriated patrons at an inn, climbing a tall tree.
Hazardous
Failure with Woe
Stealing mushrooms from a farm guarded by ferocious dogs, 
climbing atop a crumbling tower, or trying to swim the waters 
of a swift-­running river.
Foolish
Disaster!
Picking the pockets of a hungry Troll, playing a riddle game 
with a Dragon, or bandying words with an angry Wizard.

CHAPTER 8
132
before they return to their lands, or figuring out a compli-
cated riddle, and so on. 
To complete a Skill Endeavour, the participating 
Player-­heroes must achieve a set number of successful 
rolls — the endeavour’s Resistance rating. 
SKILL ENDEAVOUR SEQUENCE
A Skill Endeavour is resolved applying the following steps:
1.	 Set Resistance
2.	 Set Time Limit
3.	 Execution
When the Skill Endeavour is concluded, the Lore­master assesses 
its outcome (see Completing a Skill Endeavour).
1. SET RESISTANCE: Similarly to what they do with councils, 
the players describe what they intend to achieve with the 
endeavour, and the Lore­master adjudicates whether the 
attempt is Simple (Resistance 3), Laborious (Resistance 6), 
or Daunting (Resistance 9), taking into consideration the 
current gameplay circumstances: 
	
♦In general terms, a Simple goal corresponds to a 
lengthy but manageable endeavour, like carrying a 
boat to the top of a steep slope, or putting out the fire 
consuming a house. 
	
♦A Laborious attempt indicates a difficult and time-­
consuming affair, like searching a wide area to find a 
lost item, or digging a deep trench in hard terrain.
	
♦A Daunting goal is a hard and complicated endeavour, 
like repairing a rope bridge that spans a bottomless 
chasm, or researching obscure lore in a great library.
2. SET TIME LIMIT: Sometimes, the Company has a limited 
amount of time to achieve its goal. If the current circum-
stances require it, the Lore­master sets a time limit for the 
endeavour — that is, the total number of attempts that the 
Player-­heroes are granted as a group to achieve their goal. 
	
♦If the Company hasn’t enough time to complete the 
task, the time limit is set to 3; 
	
♦If the Company has only a short time, the time limit 
is equal to 4; 
	
♦If the Company has enough time, the time limit is set at 5; 
	
♦If there is plenty of time, the time limit is set at 6 or more.
How much time they have of course depends on the circum-
stances — for example, if the Player-­heroes have an hour to 
search a room before its occupant returns, it could be con-
sidered plenty of time, while an hour is a short time if they 
have to search an entire castle.
Similarly, if an endeavour does not require the imposition 
of a time limit, then the Lore­master must evaluate how long 
the Company takes to complete it, again taking into consid-
eration the nature of the task and the current circumstances. 
This is generally accomplished by adjudicating how 
often the Player-­heroes can make their rolls. For exam-
ple, searching a wide area for tracks while travelling may 
allow the Player-­heroes to roll twice a day, while scaling 
the side of a cliff may ask for a roll every hour or so.
3. EXECUTION: This is when the Player-­heroes start making 
their rolls. By their very nature, Skill Endeavours may allow 
Player-­heroes to use different Skills towards the same goal, but 
also to use the same Skill repeatedly, if the circumstances allow 
it (for example, ATHLETICS, to dig a ditch). 
A Skill Endeavour is concluded when the Player-­heroes 
reach the amount of successful rolls required, or they 
run out of time.
COMPLETING A SKILL ENDEAVOUR
A Skill Endeavour is completed successfully when the Player-­
heroes match or exceed the Resistance rating with successful 
Skill rolls. A failure happens when the Player-­heroes abandon 
OPPOSED ACTIONS
While unlikely, it may happen that a Player-­hero 
is trying to accomplish something in direct oppo-
sition to another Player-­hero. When this happens, 
the action roll becomes an opposed roll.
An opposed roll is resolved with everyone 
rolling simultaneously, using the same ability or 
different ones, depending on the circumstances. 
Everyone rolls against their relevant Attribute TN.
For example, you are discussing a learned 
topic while another Player-­hero challenges you 
with witty remarks in front of an audience (LORE 
vs. RIDDLE), or two heroes are arm-­wrestling (ATH-
LETICS vs. ATHLETICS).
If more than one contestant scores a success, 
then the character who obtained the highest num-
ber of 
 icons is considered to have overcome 
the opposition. If all rolls fail or the results are 
tied, roll again or, if more appropriate, the con-
test ends in a draw. 

THE LOREMASTER
133
the task, or their time runs out and the Company is inter-
rupted by whatever caused the imposition of a time limit. 
In case of success, the players achieve their objective. In 
case of a failure, the Lore­master must determine exactly what 
happens, based on the nature of the Skill Endeavour itself. 
sources of injury
There are many ways for heroes to get hurt during an Adven-
turing Phase, and not all perils come from visible adversaries 
on the field of battle — drowning in the frigid waters of a 
lake or breathing noxious fumes emerging from an ancient 
tomb can kill an adventurer as well as a raging fire or falling 
from a great height.
Often, Player-­heroes take damage from a source of injury 
as the result of failing a roll — for example, failing a roll of 
ATHLETICS while climbing, or swimming across a river. Other 
times, it depends on the circumstances — for example, a 
Player-­hero is exposed to frigid winds without wearing the 
proper garments.
FAILING ROLLS DURING 
A SKILL ENDEAVOUR
A failed roll made while attempting to complete 
a Skill Endeavour may mean very different things, 
based on the specific circumstances of the effort. 
Using the guidelines given on page 131 for 
Risk Levels, the Loremaster can adjudicate the 
consequences of each failed Skill roll, assessing 
its consequences as those due to a simple failure, 
a failure with woe, or a disaster!
	
♦A SIMPLE FAILURE. Failing a roll during a Skill 
Endeavour which is not performed under 
stress normally only causes a delay. It may 
take longer to achieve the action, but the res­
olution of the action may continue. 
	
♦
FAILURE WITH WOE. A negative consequence 
takes place. Examples include falling for a short 
distance suffering a loss of Endurance, or inhal­
ing smoke while extinguishing a fire.
	
♦
DISASTER! The Skill Endeavour fails com­
pletely and cannot be resumed.

CHAPTER 8
134
ENDURANCE LOSS LEVELS
In game terms, harm suffered by a Player-­hero is generally 
translated as a loss of Endurance. Outside of combat, damage 
suffered is ranked in three levels — moderate, severe, and 
grievous, and is determined by comparing a Feat die roll to 
the Endurance Loss table below:
	
♦If the Endurance loss is moderate, the Lore­master 
makes a Favoured Feat die roll;
	
♦If the Endurance loss is severe, the Lore­master rolls a 
Feat die;
	
♦If the Endurance loss is grievous, the Lore­master 
makes an Ill-­favoured Feat die roll.
ENDURANCE LOSS:
FEAT DIE 
RESULT
PLAYER-­
HERO IS…
EFFECT
Knocked 
out
The Player-­hero is reduced to 
zero Endurance
1–10
Bruised
The Player-­hero loses an 
amount of Endurance equal to 
the numerical result
 
Unscathed
The Player-­hero is unharmed
Different sources of harm inflict damage differently, as 
shown in the table below. For example, falling damage may 
vary based on the height fallen or on the landing surface, 
while fire damage may depend on the intensity and level of 
exposure. 
FATAL INJURIES: If Player-­heroes suffer an incident that 
should in all likelihood prove fatal, they die instantly when 
Wounded or when they gain the Dying condition. Examples 
include falling from an extreme height onto rocky terrain, 
being trapped under the ruins of a burning structure, or 
drowning in freezing waters.
POISON: A poisoned Player-­hero cannot rest and must roll 
for the corresponding Endurance loss at the end of each day 
— If the roll produces a , the hero takes no damage and is 
not poisoned any more. A successful HEALING roll done at 
the start of a day also removes the effects of poison — the 
roll loses (1d) if the poison is Severe, and loses (2d) if Grievous.
SOURCES OF INJURY:
SOURCE
MODERATE
SEVERE
GRIEVOUS
NOTES
Extreme 
Cold
Chilling winds
Deep snow
Frigid waters
Roll each half hour. Hero is Dying 
if down to zero Endurance.
Falling
Short fall (10 feet 
max, or soft landing)
Long fall (30 feet max, 
or hard landing)
Deadly fall (great height, 
or dangerous landing)
Hero is Wounded if down to zero 
Endurance.
Fire
Torch flame, 
campfire
Brazier, burning 
house
Funeral pyre, Dragon 
fire
Roll each round. Hero is also 
Wounded if down to zero 
Endurance.
Suffocation
Choking fumes
Drowning
Strangulation
Roll each round. Hero is Dying if 
down to zero Endurance.
Poison
Food poisoning
Snake-­bite, 
Orc-­poison
Spider-­poison
Roll each day. Hero is Dying if 
down to zero Endurance.
SKILL ENDEAVOURS, RISK, 
AND DAMAGE
The various Sources of Injury detailed here can be 
used to inflict harm on the Player-­heroes as a conse­
quence of their actions, based on their performance. 
Following the rules for Skill rolls with Risk and 
those for Skill Endeavours, the Lore­master may 
apply the following:
	
♦A Failure or a Success with Woe may cause a 
moderate loss of Endurance;
	
♦A Failure with Woe may result in a severe loss 
of Endurance;
	
♦
Disaster can provoke a grievous loss of 
Endurance.

THE LOREMASTER
135
lore­master characters
‘That’s right! Barliman is my name. Barliman Butterbur at your service!’
Lore­master characters are the best tool a Lore­master has to 
create a believable setting for the players. The adventurers 
interact briefly with a great many of them during each scene 
— they compose the army of ‘extras’ who populate a village 
they enter, crowd the streets of a town, and frequent the inn 
the Company stops at to get some rest. Others serve a purpose 
that goes beyond that of acting simply as a backdrop for the 
deeds of the Player-­heroes, and can be encountered more 
than once. Finally, there are famous personalities, those char-
acters that are part of the history of Middle-­earth as created 
in the stories — individuals that the Player-­heroes will have 
the chance to meet in the course of their career. 
distinctive features
Usually, what the Lore­master needs to play the part of a Lore­
master character is just a name, a short description, and an idea 
of the purpose that the character serves in the current scene. 
Sometimes this is not enough, and additional information 
becomes necessary, either because the interaction develops 
(or degenerates!) during play as a result of the Company’s 
actions, or because the introduction of the Lore­master char-
acter served a greater purpose.
The addition of one or more well-­chosen traits to the 
description of a Lore­master character is generally all that is 
needed to give depth to an individual.
To better define a character, the Lore­master chooses 
an occupation or a field of expertise, and then adds 
one or two Distinctive Features (choosing from those 
available to heroes, or even inventing them on the spot).
By doing so, a faceless figure in the background becomes an 
‘old but trusted servant’, a ‘grim-­faced, keen-­eyed guard’, a 
‘wise woman learned in herb-­lore’ — a short but vivid descrip-
tion that helps the Lore­master and the players to picture the 
character more readily.
lore­master characters 
and die rolls
Most of the time, the interaction of a Player-­hero with Lore­
master characters is resolved without die rolls — natural con-
versation and knowledge of the setting are all that is required. 
When this is not enough, the Lore­master and the players 
resort to the usual rules for Action Resolution, consider-
ing whether Lore­master characters are seen as obstacles 
by the Company, or if they give assistance (see page 136).
Should the interaction with a Lore­master character lead to out-
right conflict, the character must be cast as an Adversary by gen-
erating the characteristics needed for Combat (see page 142). 
LORE­MASTER CHARACTERS AS OBSTACLES
When a Lore­master character hinders the course of action of 
the Company, the players can resolve the situation with a die roll. 
Sneaking past someone, trying to persuade or intimi-
date an individual, even outrunning a pursuer, are all 
examples of actions that can be handled simply and 
quickly using the usual rules for Action Resolution.
In most cases, a simple Skill roll is enough to represent the 
complication, but if a Lore­master character possesses a Dis-
tinctive Feature that can be considered to aggravate the action 
of the acting hero, then the Lore­master can apply a penalty: 
The acting hero’s die roll loses (1d) if the Distinctive 
Feature is making the action particularly difficult.
NAMING LORE­MASTER CHARACTERS
A quick way to give substance to Lore­master char­
acters is to give each of them a name. In a game 
set in Middle-­earth, this is easier said than done, as 
each Culture follows specific naming conventions. 
To avoid fumbling through the rules each time 
a player asks the name of one of your characters, 
it would be wise for the Lore­master to keep a list 
of names handy from those found in the character 
generation chapter (see Heroic Cultures, pages 
33–43).

CHAPTER 8
136
the shadow
‘And that is another reason why the Ring should be destroyed: as long as it is in the world 
it will be a danger even to the Wise. For nothing is evil in the beginning.’
Middle-­earth has been under attack by the forces of dark-
ness since its creation. Across each age, the world has been 
threatened by the designs of a Dark Lord, a powerful Enemy 
relentless in the desire to dominate all. Sauron the Great, 
an evil spirit of immense power, might already be far closer 
to victory than any dare dread. The presence of the Enemy 
weighs upon the hearts of most inhabitants of Middle-­earth, 
with the exception of a fortunate few living in the havens of 
the northwest. Multitudes living to the east and south worship 
him already as the only god they have ever known. 
The Free Peoples are among those few who have cher-
ished a glimmer of hope: the knowledge that, as powerful as 
he appears to be, Sauron can be resisted and even defeated by 
steadfast opposition. Countless battles have been won or lost 
by alliances of the folk of Middle-­earth. Though the Shadow 
has never failed to return in a new shape, even after the most 
resounding defeats, neither has hope ever fully deserted the 
hearts of those who fight against it.
But the Shadow does not rely solely upon instruments of 
war and the devious deeds of its servants to breed fear and 
doubt. The temptations that dwell even in the hearts of the 
brave have ever been its ally — Valiant warriors, adventurers, 
and kings can all stray from their path willingly, given the 
right circumstances. No matter how pure they believe their 
motives to be, or how just the ends, giving in to their dark-
est desires will eventually lead them to exert their power for 
personal gain or the domination of others. 
shadow points
Challenging an almost all-­powerful Enemy and facing its ter-
rible minions is bound to instil a sense of fear and doubt in 
the Player-­heroes, a sentiment that in time comes to weigh 
heavily on their hearts and minds. 
In the game, this burden is represented by the accumula-
tion of Shadow points, and by the sources that force their gain. 
EXAMPLE: 
The Company is trying to locate the whereabouts of a terribly 
Secretive wild Goblin terrorising the countryside near Archet. 
The Player-­heroes roll HUNTING, losing (1d).
If, on the contrary, a Lore­master character displays a Distinc-
tive Feature that can be interpreted as a flaw, it may improve 
the chances of the acting hero instead: 
The acting hero’s die roll gains (1d) if the Distinctive 
Feature is making the action easier.
EXAMPLE: 
A group of dangerous fisher-­folk has detained a Hobbit who 
went to their village to gain free passage across their land. 
The guard is a Bold warrior, who doesn’t think much of his 
halfling prisoner. The Player-­hero gains (1d) on her escape 
attempt using STEALTH.
LORE­MASTER CHARACTERS 
PROVIDING ASSISTANCE
If the presence of a Lore­master character can be considered 
to benefit the action of a Player-­hero, then the corresponding 
roll can receive a positive modifier.
Only Lore­master characters possessing an appropriate 
Distinctive Feature can support the action of a Player-­hero:
The acting hero’s die roll gains (1d) if the Lore­master 
character’s Distinctive Feature is considered to be 
beneficial, or gains (2d) if the trait can be deemed to 
ensure a superior level of support.
EXAMPLE: 
The Company has been given direction by Tom Bombadil to 
find their way in the Old Forest — old Tom’s advice is sound, 
if a little confusing — all TRAVEL rolls made to navigate 
the woods gain (1d).

THE LOREMASTER
137
In the course of play, the Player-­heroes see their 
Shadow score ebb and flow, as they gain points during 
the Adventuring Phase as a consequence of their 
actions, and then they possibly lose them by making 
a Shadow Test, by strengthening their resolve (see 
Harden Will), or by mending their spiritual hurt 
during a Fellow­ship Phase (see Spiritual Recovery, 
page 119).
Shadow points are kept track of by marking them in the 
appropriate box on the character sheet, next to a hero’s Hope 
rating. Heroes cannot accumulate Shadow in excess of their 
maximum Hope score (any additional points gained do not 
raise a hero’s Shadow score).
SHADOW TESTS
A number of sources of Shadow allow players to make a roll to 
cancel, or at least reduce, the amount of points gained. Called 
Shadow Tests, these rolls are based using either VALOUR or 
WISDOM, depending on the specific source of Shadow.
Shadow Tests are resolved as any other roll, by using a 
Feat die, plus a number of Success dice equal to the charac-
ter’s appropriate rating.
When a Shadow Test is passed, the hero reduces the 
number of Shadow points gained by 1 point on a suc-
cess, plus 1 for each Success icon ( ) rolled.
The sources of Shadow that can be resisted with a test (Dread, 
Greed, and Sorcery) are described later in this chapter.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF SHADOW
A creeping threat, Shadow becomes truly dangerous when 
the number of points accumulated by a Player-­hero matches 
or overcomes their current Hope score: 
When this happens, Player-­heroes become Miserable, 
and see all their rolls hampered by the fact that rolling 
an 
 icon on the Feat die results in failure, regard-
less of the TN and the actual result obtained by the roll.
But Player-­heroes suffer even more serious consequences if 
their Shadow gain is left unchecked:
Player-­heroes whose Shadow score reaches their max-
imum Hope rating are so overburdened by their fears 
that they become Ill-­favoured on all rolls.
There is only one way to recover from such depths of desper-
ation — the Player-­hero must experience a bout of madness. 
A bout of madness is a violent outburst, a dangerous crisis 
that frees a Player-­hero from the burden of the Shadow, but 
that may have serious, long-­term consequences (see Madness, 
on page 139).
HARDEN WILL
Adventurers who are struggling under the burden of the 
Shadow may tap into their innermost reserves of spiritual 
energy to harden their determination, before it’s too late. 
For some, this effort takes the form of a demonstration of 
desperate strength; others enjoy a moment of clarity in their 
darkest moment, when all seems lost, and suddenly all doubts 
are cast away:
In game terms, Player-­heroes whose accumulated 
Shadow does not yet match their maximum Hope 
score may choose to remove all their current Shadow, 
replacing it with a single Shadow Scar.
A Shadow Scar is a ‘permanent’ Shadow point that can be 
removed only during a Yule Fellow­ship Phase, by choosing 
the Heal Scars undertaking (see page 121), but is otherwise 
considered as a normal Shadow point for all purposes.
Sam’s plain hobbit-­face grew stern, almost grim, as the will hard-
ened in him, and he felt through all his limbs a thrill, as if he was 
turning into some creature of stone and steel that neither despair 
nor weariness nor endless barren miles could subdue.
sources of shadow
Adventurers gain Shadow in many ways. When their deter-
mination is shaken by witnessing distressing events or facing 
terrible foes, then the source of Shadow points is Dread; if 
they are committing despicable actions, they are tainting their 
conscience with Misdeeds; if they take possession of precious 
or powerful objects, they may be tempted by Greed; finally, if 
they fall victim of dark magics they have to resist the effects 
of Sorcery.
DREAD
Terror is a spear in the hand of the Enemy. Adventur-
ers gain Shadow points whenever they witness something 
capable of striking fear or sowing doubts into their hearts, 
be it facing a horrible creature out of the darkest pits of 
Mordor, entering a place where shadows are made thicker 
by an ancient curse, or experiencing directly the terrible 
power of the Enemy. 
The extent of the Shadow gain depends on the source 
of Dread — the table above provides a number of examples 

CHAPTER 8
138
to help the Lore­master adjudicate (other sources, like the 
terror caused by a creature or a dark spell, are discussed in 
detail in the Adversaries, page 142).
Adventurers may reduce or cancel the effects of Dread 
with a Shadow Test (VALOUR).
But the king sat upon Snowmane, motionless, gazing upon the agony 
of Minas Tirith, as if stricken suddenly by anguish, or by dread. 
He seemed to shrink down, cowed by age. Merry himself felt as if a 
great weight of horror and doubt had settled on him.
GREED
Hoards of gold and great stores of enchanted weapons and 
armour lie in forgotten caves. Heroes risk being corrupted 
by their own desire whenever they put their hands on gold 
and precious objects that were tainted by laying in the dark 
for a long time.
When the Player-­heroes find a hoard of treasure, they may 
gain a number of Shadow points if the hoard was tainted (see 
Treasure, on page 158). 
Adventurers may reduce or cancel the effects of Greed 
with a Shadow Test (WISDOM). 
“It is mine, I tell you. My own. My Precious. Yes, my Precious.”
MISDEEDS
Companions often confront challenges that are so demand-
ing that they might be tempted to adopt extreme measures, 
especially if they aim to achieve a noble goal. When this hap-
pens, the Lore­master must consider if a course of action can 
be considered a Misdeed.
Player-­heroes gain Shadow points whenever they commit 
an act that is essentially wrong or even nefarious in nature, 
regardless of the objective they are trying to achieve. The 
Misdeeds table can be used as the basis of the Lore­master’s 
decision.
A Misdeed is a special instance of Shadow gain, as it can-
not be reduced or cancelled by a Shadow Test of any kind. 
The Lore­master should usually warn the players when they 
are about to carry out a Misdeed.
“You can say that I was too strong and took it by force. For I am too 
strong for you, halfling,” he cried; and suddenly he sprang over the 
stone and leaped at Frodo.
SOURCES OF DREAD:
SOURCE
EXAMPLE
SHADOW POINTS 
GAINED
Natural but unexpected tragic event, or very 
grievous occurrence.
Serious or mortal accident, death in the family, 
natural catastrophe
1
Gruesome killing, dreadful experience, Orc-­work.
Discovering villagers savagely mutilated, experi­
encing slavery
2
Harrowing experience, physical and spiritual 
torment.
Experiencing torture, being haunted by a Wight
3
Experiencing directly the power of the Enemy.
Seeing the mustering of a Shadow army, seeing 
the Eye in a Palantír
4
INTENTION
It is important to note that merely attempting to do 
something despicable is a Misdeed, regardless of 
whether the action succeeds or not. Moreover, it 
is possible to commit a Misdeed unknowingly, for 
example, attacking someone considered to be guilty 
of a heinous crime, but who later turns out to be 
innocent. In this case, the Player-­heroes should not 
gain Shadow automatically, but only if they don’t 
attempt to make reparations when their mistake 
comes to light. If their reaction is one of contrition 
and they show an earnest attempt to put the situation 
right, then they can be allowed to make a Shadow 
Test (WISDOM) to reduce or cancel the Shadow gain.

THE LOREMASTER
139
SORCERY
It is said that those who are in the favour of the Dark Lord are 
often rewarded with evil knowledge. Some are able to wield 
such knowledge to terrible effect, twisting it into a form of 
dark magic. Adventurers gain Shadow when they fall victim 
of the dreadful spells of the Enemy and his minions.
The number of Shadow points gained by the Player-­
heroes depends on the power of the sorcerous spell. Often, 
gaining Shadow points as the consequence of Sorcery has 
additional negative consequences. 
Adventurers may reduce or cancel the effects of Sor-
cery with a Shadow Test (WISDOM). 
Then the leader, who was now half across the Ford, stood up 
menacing in his stirrups, and raised up his hand. Frodo was 
stricken dumb.
madness
As seen on page 137, Player-­heroes whose Shadow score 
reaches their maximum Hope rating become Ill-­favoured on all 
rolls. Once they reach this point, they can get rid of Shadow 
only in one way — by playing out a bout of madness, a violent 
reaction marking a significant step in their downward course 
towards degeneration. 
To play out a bout of madness, players must describe 
how their characters lose control for a short period of 
time, doing something they will later regret. 
To describe their loss of control, players should take into 
consideration the source of the last Shadow gain that pushed 
their heroes beyond their limit, a character’s Shadow Path, or 
one of their Flaws (see Shadow Paths overleaf).
Here are some examples of the consequences of a bout 
of madness:
	
♦BETRAYAL: The Player-­hero fails to keep their word or 
to perform an assigned duty, and the Company suffers 
the consequences. For example, the hero fails to watch 
over a prisoner properly and the prisoner escapes.
	
♦
FEAR: The heroes fall prey to their fears, and flee from 
any source of danger, thinking only about preserving 
themselves from any threat.
	
♦
LUST: Lusting characters feel an irresistible desire for 
an object not belonging to them, and try to take it, 
secretly or overtly.
	
♦
RAGE: Raging characters brood over real or imaginary 
wrongs until they react aggressively to a perceived 
threat or source of opposition.
If nothing seems to fit the circumstances, a standard bout 
of madness can take the form of an aggression of any 
type, verbal or physical, upon the most likely and avail-
able target (a character’s Fellow­ship Focus often quali-
fies as such). 
Player-­heroes quickly regain control of themselves once 
their bout of madness passes. They see their mind finally 
cleared of the tangle of fear and doubt they fell into before 
facing the crisis.
They are no longer Ill-­favoured and remove all their 
current Shadow points, but they advance one step 
along their Shadow Path (page 140). 
A bout of madness must take place during the current Adven-
turing Phase (player-­heroes ending the Adventuring Phase with 
a Shadow score matching their maximum Hope can be consid-
ered to have left the Company and are retired from the game). 
“What have I done? Frodo, Frodo!” he called. “Come back! A mad-
ness took me, but it has passed. Come back!”
MISDEEDS:
ACTION
SHADOW POINTS GAINED
Violent threats and malicious lies; heedless cruelty
1
Manipulating others; abusing your authority; deliberate cruelty
2
Theft or plunder; oathbreaking or cowardice; treachery
3
Torment or torture; killing or crippling a surrendered foe or harmless folk
4
Murder; willingly taking actions in the service of the Enemy
4 plus 1 Shadow Scar

CHAPTER 8
140
SHADOW PATHS
In addition to resetting their Shadow score, every time a hero 
suffers a bout of madness they advance along the Shadow Path 
corresponding to their chosen Calling. All paths are articu-
lated along a number of steps towards degeneration, with 
each step marked by the acquisition of a different Flaw — a 
Distinctive Feature with a negative connotation. 
A Player-­hero’s Calling determines which Flaws are 
acquired, based on the character’s Shadow Path (see table 
above).
SUCCUMBING TO THE SHADOW
Heroes who develop the full complement of four Flaws risk 
succumbing totally to the Shadow: 
The next time that their Shadow score reaches their 
maximum Hope rating they do not become Ill-­favoured 
but are taken out of play instead.
A Player-­hero who succumbs to the Shadow is going to disap-
pear from the game soon, probably as a consequence of one 
of the following events:
	
♦
LOST TO MADNESS: When Men, Hobbits, or Dwarves 
fall under the Shadow, they succumb to madness. 
More often than not, this results sooner or later in 
their death, as they threaten others to the extent that 
they end up being killed, or starve to death in some 
solitary place, forsaken by folk and beasts.
	
♦
RETURN TO VALINOR: When the burden of the 
Shadow overpowers Elves, they seek to leave Middle-­
earth as soon as possible, to sail for the Uttermost West 
and be healed of the sadness and misery of this world.
The details about the fate of a Player-­hero who descends a Shadow 
Path to its bottom are up to the Lore­master and the player con-
trolling the fallen character. They should work together to find 
a way to incorporate the hero’s destiny into the ongoing game. 
SHADOW PATHS:
BOUT OF 
MADNESS
CURSE OF 
VENGEANCE
DRAGON- 
SICKNESS
LURE OF 
POWER
LURE OF 
SECRETS
PATH OF 
DESPAIR
WANDERING- 
MADNESS
# 1
Spiteful
Grasping
Resentful
Haughty
Troubled
Idle
# 2
Brutal
Mistrustful
Arrogant
Scornful
Wavering
Forgetful
# 3
Cruel
Deceitful
Overconfident
Scheming
Guilt-­ridden
Uncaring
# 4
Murderous
Thieving
Tyrannical
Traitorous
Fearful
Cowardly

THE LOREMASTER
141
using flaws
Every time heroes develop a Flaw they are renouncing their 
higher ambitions and embracing simpler, more primitive 
emotions. They are trading respect for arrogance, love for 
lust, trust for suspicion. 
The Lore­master should take into account the effects of 
a Flaw whenever the performance of a Player-­hero can be 
made worse by it.
If a Player-­hero is using a Skill that can plausibly be 
affected by a Flaw, the roll is made Ill-­favoured.
EXAMPLE: 
An Arrogant hero is making a COURTESY roll. The Lore­
master considers that her pompous conduct may worsen her 
chances to succeed, so the roll is made Ill-­favoured.
 
The following sections describe the various Flaws that Player-­
heroes may develop as a result of their degeneration, grouped 
by Shadow Path. The Lore­master can use the definitions listed 
here to determine the effects of a bout of madness, and the 
players may use them to keep in mind how a Flaw should 
affect the behaviour of a Player-­hero.
CURSE OF VENGEANCE
“I wish I had Gandalf here! Curse him for his choice of you! … As for 
you, I will throw you to the rocks!" he cried and lifted Bilbo in his arms.
SPITEFUL: You often repay real or imagined wrongs with 
vicious rudeness. Depending on the provocation, you may 
simply be very impolite, or downright insulting. 
BRUTAL: You react violently to provocations and show little 
restraint under most circumstances.
CRUEL: You don’t care if your actions cause pain and suffer-
ing to others, and are needlessly savage with your enemies.
MURDEROUS: You become Murderous when you start to con-
sider killing as a perfectly natural way to achieve a goal or 
simply to make things go your way. 
DRAGON-­SICKNESS
…he fell under the Dragon-­sickness, and took most of the gold and fled 
with it, and died of starvation in the Waste, deserted by his companions.
GRASPING: If you become Grasping, you seek to accumulate 
gold and precious items above all else, just for the sake of 
possessing them.
MISTRUSTFUL: When your prized possessions start to weigh 
you down and become a treasure to be guarded, even the 
good advice of friends appears to mask dubious intentions. 
DECEITFUL: You feel no shame in misleading others with lies 
and stratagems, as long as your machinations further your 
ends and corrupted needs.
THIEVING: You have discovered that anything you desire can 
be yours — you just have to take it. You have earned the right 
to take all you want when you sacrificed the love of your peers 
and your own self-­respect.
LURE OF POWER
"It is by our own folly that the Enemy will defeat us," cried Boromir. 
"How it angers me! Fool! Obstinate fool! Running wilfully to death 
and ruining our cause."
RESENTFUL: You risk becoming bitter and angry with the 
people you ought to lead. You often feel that you risk your 
life for individuals that fail to see the wisdom of your words. 
ARROGANT: You don’t miss an opportunity to underline your 
own importance, often belittling your peers and companions.
OVERCONFIDENT: Overconfidence denotes overweening 
pride, a sentiment that blinds you to your own limits and 
weaknesses. You endeavour to do anything you set your mind 
upon, regardless of the consequences that might befall others.
TYRANNICAL: You escalate your actions and desires to the 
level of a just cause. Your disregard for the lives of others is 
FLAWED HEROES
Flawed adventurers haven’t lost the possibility of 
being heroes. Many of the characters described in 
the books display the influence of the Shadow to 
some measure - certainly Boromir, or Frodo, but 
also Aragorn and even Gandalf. In most cases, 
they were able to keep their weaknesses in check, 
avoiding corruption’s most dire consequences.

CHAPTER 8
142
so profound that you go to any lengths to achieve your ends, 
regardless of the cost or methods employed to accomplish 
them. Any dissenting opinion is considered as utter betrayal. 
LURE OF SECRETS
“The roots of those mountains must be roots indeed; there must be 
great secrets buried there which have not been discovered since the 
beginning.”
HAUGHTY: You don’t recognise easily the wisdom found in 
the words and actions of others, and tend to turn aside all 
advice and offers of help. 
SCORNFUL: You treat the propositions of others with disdain, 
making use of every opportunity to mock them for their pre-
sumed inadequacy. 
SCHEMING: You keep your thoughts and intentions to your-
self at all times, never giving advice and heeding only your 
own judgement. You might sometimes agree with the prop-
ositions of others, but only to be free to follow your own 
choices later.
TRAITOROUS: When you become Traitorous you cannot be 
trusted to keep your word. You are ready to betray your own 
friends and allies, if it would turn to your advantage.
PATH OF DESPAIR
“Now the Company is all in ruin. It is I that have failed. Vain was 
Gandalf’s trust in me. What shall I do now?”
TROUBLED: You feel a sense of disquiet that makes it hard 
for you to read a situation clearly and offer counsel to 
others.
WAVERING: Caution can be the enemy of action, and when 
you become Wavering you cannot set your mind upon a 
choice quickly and effectively. You vacillate between the var-
ious options you see before you.
GUILT-­RIDDEN: The curse of those who defend others is to 
feel remorse when their actions go amiss, pushing you to 
refuse any daring course of action.
FEARFUL: When you become Fearful you are so beset by wor-
ries and concerns that you cannot force yourself to risk doing 
anything that will potentially endanger yourself and those 
you care for.
WANDERING-­MADNESS
“I feel I need a holiday, a very long holiday, as I have told you before. 
Probably a permanent holiday: I don’t expect I shall return.”
IDLE: It takes a lot to stir Idle adventurers into action. You 
are easily distracted, and must be cajoled to fully participate 
in endeavours.
FORGETFUL: Being Forgetful indicates that you are often day-
dreaming and absent-­minded, and find it difficult to remem-
ber even important things.
UNCARING: When you become Uncaring you lose touch with 
the world outside of yourself. You can’t bring yourself to feel 
compassion, and quickly lose interest in matters that do not 
concern you directly. 
COWARDLY: You care only for your own safety under any cir-
cumstances, and will go to any lengths to save yourself when 
a threat arises.
adversaries
For the folk of Arnor dwindled, and their foes devoured them…
Not all the servants of the Enemy are Orcs, Trolls or Wraiths. 
Among the foes of those who choose to oppose the Shadow are 
many who cannot be distinguished easily from their friends, if 
at all. And in times of doubt, a deadly threat may come from 
otherwise steadfast allies, turned into ruthless adversaries by 
simple misunderstanding, or, worse, by treachery or betrayal.
This chapter presents a selection of adversaries, from the 
various cunning and evil creatures of Middle-­earth, to mis-
guided individuals that end up opposing the deeds of the 
Player-­heroes.

THE LOREMASTER
143
format of presentation
To make the life of a Lore­master easier, all game informa-
tion regarding adversaries is presented using a standardised 
format. The capabilities of a foe are described using a set of 
terms and characteristics that are similar to those used to 
define heroes, but that make use of simplified rules meant 
to speed up the gameplay. 
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
This single value replaces the three Attributes used to describe 
Player-­heroes and can be used to gauge the threat level posed 
by a single adversary of a type. 
In combat, this numerical rating is applied as a mod-
ifier to several mechanics, like for example a number 
of Special Damage opportunities and Fell Abilities.
MIGHT AND ENDURANCE
All Adversaries possess a number of Endurance points, and a 
Might rating. Endurance measures the resistance of the adver-
sary to the exhaustion of combat and harm; Might indicates 
the number of Wounds required to slay a foe outright, and 
the number of attacks it can take during a round of combat.
	
♦All adversaries are taken out of combat if their Endur-
ance is reduced to zero. 
	
♦Adversaries can make a number of attacks up to their 
Might score, targeting multiple foes in the same round, 
or the same opponent multiple times. 
Adversaries can never opt to be knocked back to reduce the 
severity of a loss of Endurance. 
HATE OR RESOLVE
Each Adversary description includes a numerical rating mea-
suring their fighting drive and fuelling their special abilities 
— in game terms, Hate and Resolve serve a function that is 
similar to that of Hope for the Player-­heroes.
More specifically:
	
♦The Lore­master can reduce an adversary’s Hate or 
Resolve score to make them gain (1d) on a die roll 
during combat (generally, attack or Protection rolls).
	
♦Often, an expenditure of Hate or Resolve is required 
by several Fell Abilities (see next page).
	
♦A creature without Hate or Resolve is considered Weary.
	
♦Each combat round, an adversary can spend a maxi-
mum of Hate/Resolve equal to their Might.
HATE: Adversaries with a Hate point rating are to be con-
sidered minions or servants of the Enemy. Their actions are 
not easily misinterpreted, as they always aim at hurting or 
otherwise damaging the Player-­heroes in one way or another, 
desiring only to satisfy their Master’s will. They may opt to 
flee if in a disadvantageous position, but will never yield or 
surrender, nor give quarter unless forced by circumstances 
or direct orders. 
All minions of Sauron and all monstrous creatures 
have a Hate rating.
RESOLVE: Adversaries that are given a Resolve score are 
not sworn enemies of the Free Folk, but may take up 
arms to oppose a Company of heroes as a consequence 
of their choice of allegiance, or due to unfortunate cir-
cumstances. Foes with a Resolve score lack the relentless 
motivation that drives the minions of the Dark Lord, and 
may surrender when outnumbered, or when casualties 
become excessive. 
Evil Men and other non-­monstrous adversaries often 
have a Resolve rating.
HATE VS RESOLVE: There is another important difference 
between foes with a Hate rating and ones with a Resolve score: 
while fighting minions of the Enemy can hardly call the integ-
rity of the Player-­heroes into question, the act of attacking or 
killing an adversary with a Resolve rating should always be eval-
uated by the Lore­master as a possible Misdeed (see page 138). 
To ascertain this, Lore­masters can ask themselves 
some simple questions: was the fight provoked by 
the Player-­heroes or were they attacked? Was there 
another option to combat? Was killing necessary, or 
were the adversaries prone to surrender? 
OUT OF COMBAT
Once a victorious battle is over, the Player-­heroes 
often must deal with the dead and dying. If the 
information is relevant, the Lore­master can con­
sider that adversaries that were taken out of com­
bat reducing them to zero Endurance could be still 
barely alive when a fight has ended, and might 
even survive if rescued.

CHAPTER 8
144
PARRY
An adversary’s Parry rating is a numerical modifier that is 
added to the STRENGTH TN of any Player-­hero trying to hit 
the adversary in combat.
ARMOUR
An adversary’s Armour rating works in the same way as a 
hero’s —it is used by the Lore­master to make a Protection 
test when the adversary is hit by a Piercing Blow.
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Each adversary features a primary and a secondary Combat 
Proficiency, representing its main means of attack. 
Each listed attack form is followed first by its rating, then 
by its stats as Damage/Injury, and finally by the Special Dam-
age opportunities (if any) that are available to that Adversary 
type (see the list of options below). 
SPECIAL DAMAGE OPTIONS
Similarly to what happens with the Player-­heroes, if a success-
ful attack roll made by an adversary produces one or more 
Success icons ( ), the Lore­master can spend them to trigger 
special results. 
	
♦All special results listed here require 1 Success icon to be 
triggered. Multiple  results can be used to trigger differ-
ent results, or the same one multiple times.
	
♦All adversaries can always choose to trigger a Heavy 
Blow special damage result.
Other options are listed on each individual creature’s stat 
block, and may depend on the attack type employed, or be 
always available and as such listed separately, under the crea-
ture’s Combat Proficiencies.
Here follow the descriptions of the special damage 
options available to adversaries:
BREAK SHIELD: The attack strikes repeatedly at the shield 
of the targeted Player-­hero, smashing it to pieces. The tar-
get loses their shield’s bonus to Parry (a shield enhanced by 
Rewards or magical qualities cannot be smashed and thus is 
not affected). 
HEAVY BLOW: The attack inflicts an additional loss of Endur-
ance equal to the Attribute Level of the attacker.
PIERCE: The attacker scores a well-­aimed strike, modifying 
the Feat die result of the attack roll by +2.
SEIZE: The attacker holds on to the target — the victim 
can only fight in a Forward stance making Brawling attacks. 
Seized heroes may free themselves spending a  icon from 
a successful attack roll.
FELL ABILITIES
Most adversaries display an array of special talents, represent-
ing their innate powers and behavioural oddities. 
All adversaries’ Fell Abilities are listed in their indi-
vidual stat boxes. The Lore­master is entitled to make use 
of a Fell Ability even when it requires the expenditure of 
the last Hate or Resolve point possessed by the adversary. 
Unless otherwise noted, an adversary may use a Fell Ability 
in addition to attacking, so long as they have the necessary 
points to spend.
FEAT DIE RESULTS FOR ADVERSARIES
When the Lore­master is making a die roll to resolve 
an action attempted by a servant of the Shadow, it 
can be considered more appropriate to the theme 
to switch the meaning of the two special icons on 
the Feat Die: the 
 icon becomes the highest 
result possible and yields an automatic success, 
while the 
 rune becomes the lowest result pos­
sible and is read as 0. 
So for example, most adversaries score a 
Piercing Blow on a roll of 10 or 
 result 
on their Feat Die.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
The Lore­master may give an additional level of 
depth to the description of adversaries by giv­
ing them one or two Distinctive Features, to be 
used following the rules for Lore­master Char­
acters as Obstacles (see page 135). Each adver­
sary’s stat box listed in this chapter includes some 
suggestions.

THE LOREMASTER
145

CHAPTER 8
146
evil men
Cruel individuals like brigands, marauders and slavers 
prowling the Lone-­lands of Middle-­earth fall within this 
category. Their malicious will notwithstanding, Evil Men are 
not servitors of Sauron, and they can end up opposing the 
Player-­heroes for reasons not depending on an allegiance 
with the Dark Lord.
hostile southerners
The people of Bree call ‘Southerner’ every foreigner coming 
up the Greenway. The vast majority are simply moving away 
from some trouble, looking for lands where they can find 
some peace. Others are not so well-­meaning…
“If room isn’t found for them, they’ll find it for themselves. They’ve 
a right to live, same as other folk…”
Southerner Raider
When a particularly harsh winter has passed, Men from 
the South may assemble war parties and look for some 
isolated homestead to plunder, before retreating just as 
quickly back into the mists where they came from.
SOUTHERNER RAIDER
Canny, Hardened
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Axe 3 (5/18),  
Short Spear 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Fierce. Spend 1 Resolve point to gain (1d) 
and make the attack roll Favoured.
Southerner Champion
A Southerner Champion may be a chieftain from Dun­
land, a bandit lord capable of uniting a number of frac­
tious warriors into a small army, or just a particularly 
vicious brigand.
SOUTHERNER CHAMPION
Cruel, Tough
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
5
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Spear 3 (4/14, Pierce),  
Long-­hafted Axe 3 (6/18, Break Shield) 
FELL ABILITIES: Fierce. Spend 1 Resolve point to gain (1d) 
on an attack and to make the roll Favoured.

THE LOREMASTER
147
ruffians
Local robbers, cut-­throats, brigands and other assorted crim-
inals fall within this category of potential adversaries. Such 
foes can be encountered on the lonely roads of Eriador, but 
they are as likely to be met in a dark alley in Bree.
“Where d’you think you’re going?” said one, the largest and most 
evil-­looking of the crew.
Footpad
A cowardly bandit, ready to rob a defenceless victim, but capa­
ble of ambushing a lonely companion with the help of others.
FOOTPAD
Nimble, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
2
ENDURANCE
8
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
2
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Cudgel 2 (3/12),  
Bow 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Craven. When affected by the Intimidate Foe 
combat task, the creature also loses 1 Resolve.
Ruffian Chief
Tougher or simply fiercer, a chief is a ruffian who has 
reached the top with the help of a sharper mind, or blade. 
RUFFIAN CHIEF
Ruthless, Secretive
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
3
ENDURANCE
12
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
3
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Short Sword 3 (3/16),  
Bow 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Resolve to restore 
1 Resolve to all other Ruffians in the fight.
Highway Robber
More dangerous than a common brigand, a highway rob­
ber is used to a life in the Wild, and has learned how to 
deal with armed victims. 
HIGHWAY ­ROBBER
Swift, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
4
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Spear 3 (4/14, Pierce),  
Bow 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an 
attack, spend 1 Resolve to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured.

CHAPTER 8
148
orcs
Bred by the first Dark Power in the early years of the world 
to serve him in many wars, Orcs are once again multiplying. 
They are strong and agile creatures, quick and robust, and 
ready to learn or devise new methods or instruments of tor-
ment. Their appearance and size differs from tribe to tribe, 
but many prominent features are common to all Orcs, such as 
short legs, broad, squinting eyes, wide mouths and long fangs. 
Their malicious spirit is full of hatred for all living things, 
including their own kind, and when left to their own devices, 
Orcs often end up quarrelling fiercely over futile questions. 
But when they face their enemies they are quick to set their 
disagreements aside. 
Some Orcs direct their spite towards some specific folk. 
To reflect this, the Lore­master may add to an Orc adversary 
the Hatred Fell Ability.
	
♦
HATRED (SUBJECT). When targeting the object of their 
hate, all attacks are Favoured.
For example, the Orcs and Goblins of Goblin-­town hate 
Dwarves, and will attack a Company that includes Dwarves with 
blind fury. The Orcs of Mount Gram fiercely hate all Hobbits 
instead, and will relentlessly attack a Company including any.
Moreover, all Orcs suffer badly from the direct light of the 
sun. To reflect this, they all have the Hate Sunlight Fell Ability. 
	
♦
HATE SUNLIGHT. The creature loses 1 Hate for each 
round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
great orcs
A powerful breed of Orc, Great Orcs are said to descend from 
servant spirits that once took an Orcish shape to serve the 
Dark Power’s purposes. King Golfimbul, the Great Goblin, 
Azog and his son Bolg were Great Orcs.
…he was a great Orc with a huge iron-­clad head, and yet agile 
and strong.
Great Orc Chief
Great Orcs are often encountered as leaders and chieftains 
of their weaker-­blooded relatives.
GREAT ORC CHIEF
Bold, Cunning
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
48
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Heavy Scimitar 3 (5/18, Break 
Shield), Broad-­headed Spear 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Horrible Strength. If the creature scored a 
Piercing Blow with a close combat attack, spend 1 Hate 
to make the target’s Protection roll Ill-­favoured. 
Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured. 
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.

THE LOREMASTER
149
Great Orc Bodyguard
Less cunning than those who lead them, these fell crea­
tures protect their captains at the cost of their lives. 
GREAT ORC BODYGUARD
Fierce, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Orc-­axe 3 (5/18, Break Shield), 
Broad-­headed Spear 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Hideous Toughness. The creature is unaf­
fected by unarmed attacks. Additionally, when an attack 
inflicts damage to the creature that would cause it to 
go to zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. 
Then, if the creature is still alive its Endurance score is 
set back at half its maximum rating.
orcs of the north
Among the most numerous of the malicious creatures serv-
ing the Shadow, the Orcs of the Mountains are used to liv-
ing and making war in the deep places beneath the earth, 
where their sight is keener than any other Orc. When they 
are encountered in their mines, they are savage fighters and 
reckless in assault, but they leave the dark under the moun-
tains only when marching to war or to avenge their fallen 
kind, as they suffer badly the light of the sun. 
The Orcs of the North are a wild and independent lot, 
bent on their own purposes and aims when the Shadow’s 
influence is weak, but ready to obey the will of their Master 
when directly subject to it. The smallest among them are 
often referred to as Goblins.
“We have come all the way from the Mines to kill, and avenge our folk.”

CHAPTER 8
150
Goblin Archer
A Goblin Archer is an Orc chosen for his keen eyes. His 
ability to see in the dark, coupled with a steady hand, lets 
him shoot arrows with precision by night or day.
GOBLIN ARCHER
Cunning, Keen-­eyed
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
2
ENDURANCE
8
MIGHT
1
HATE
2
PARRY
 –
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Bow of Horn 3 (3/14, Pierce),  
Jagged Knife 2 (2/14)
FELL ABILITIES: Craven. When affected by the Intimidate 
Foe combat task, the creature also loses 1 Hate.
Orc-­poison. If an attack results in a Wound, the tar­
get is also poisoned (see page 134 for the effects of 
poison).
Orc-­chieftain
Only the most wicked and cruel Orcs live long enough 
to become chieftains and lead their tribe or warband to 
battle. An Orc-­chieftain is easy to recognise, as it is usually 
the largest in a group, wielding the meanest weapons and 
donning superior armour. Often, tell-­tale scars or mutila­
tions mark a chieftain’s long service under the Shadow.
ORC-­CHIEFTAIN
Cruel, Hardened
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
HATE
5
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Spear 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Great Leap. Spend 1 Hate to attack any 
Player-­hero, in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured.
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Orc Guard
The strongest and boldest Orcs are equipped with the 
toughest armour they can find or put together, and are 
placed to keep watch on an area wielding a sword and 
sturdy shield.
ORC GUARD
Strong, Vigilant
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Spear 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: —
Orc Soldier
Often armed with characteristic bent swords, Orc Sol­
diers are a loud, undisciplined lot. Only a forceful chief­
tain with a cruel whip and a sharp blade can keep them 
in line.
ORC SOLDIER
Rebellious, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
3
ENDURANCE
12
MIGHT
1
HATE
3
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Spear 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Craven. When affected by the Intimidate Foe 
combat task, the creature also loses 1 Hate.

THE LOREMASTER
151
trolls
Trolls were created by the Great Enemy in the Elder Days 
— to fight in many bitter wars. They were made strong and 
powerful, and appear monstrous and misshapen, as if left 
unfinished by their cruel maker. It is not known whether 
Trolls were generated in many forms, or if they evolved since 
their first appearance, but by the end of the Third Age several 
breeds of Trolls can be encountered. 
Among the things that all Trolls have in common is that 
they are incredibly resistant to damage — they all possess the 
Hideous Toughness Fell Ability.
	
♦
HIDEOUS TOUGHNESS. The creature is unaffected by 
unarmed attacks. Additionally, when an attack inflicts 
damage to the creature that would cause it to go to 
zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. 
Then, if the creature is still alive its Endurance score is 
set back at half its maximum rating.
Finally, all Trolls appear more or less slow-­witted — they all-
suffer from the Dull-­witted Fell Ability.
	
♦
DULL-­WITTED. Player-­heroes can attempt a special 
combat task against the creature while in Forward 
stance. The acting player makes a RIDDLE roll as the 
main action for the round: on a success, the Troll loses 
1 point of Hate, plus 1 point for each Success icon  
( ) rolled.
cave-­trolls
Cave-­trolls were created to fight and hunt deep under the 
earth. They have a dark skin with a greenish hue, covered with 
tight, robust scales, and appear shorter than other Trolls, as 
they are extremely hunched and often advance on all fours 
walking on their knuckles. Nobody knows if Cave-­trolls can 
endure sunlight as they never leave their hunting grounds 
under mountains, hills and fells.
A huge arm and shoulder, with a dark skin of greenish scales, was 
thrust through the widening gap.

CHAPTER 8
152
Great Cave-­troll
Feared by its own handlers, a Great Cave-­troll is sent by 
Orcs to smash the defences and the morale of the foes 
they fear the most.
GREAT CAVE-­TROLL
Brutish, Wicked
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
10
ENDURANCE
80
MIGHT
2
HATE
10
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Crush 3 (6/12, Seize),  
Bite 2 (6/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Strike Fear. Spend 1 Hate to make all 
Player-­heroes in sight gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). 
Those who fail their Shadow test are daunted and can­
not spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Thick Hide. Spend 1 Hate point to gain (2d) on a 
Protection roll.
Cave-­troll Slinker
This breed of Cave-­troll is smaller than many of its kin, but 
still larger than most Orc-­kind. Used to living in the depths 
of the earth, a Cave-troll Slinker often hunts alone and in 
the dark, relying on its acute sense of smell.
CAVE-­TROLL SLINKER
Stealthy, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
50
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Club 3 (6/16, Break Shield),  
Bite 2 (6/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Denizen of the Dark. All attack rolls are 
Favoured while in darkness.
Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is engaged in close combat with an adver­
sary wielding a torch or other burning item. 
Thick Hide. Spend 1 Hate point to gain (2d) on a 
Protection roll.
stone-­trolls
Stone-­trolls are predators, living in small groups in filthy caves 
strewn with the remains of unwary travellers. They seem to 
be somewhat more intelligent than other Troll types, maybe 
thanks to their habit of prowling in the proximity of popu-
lated areas. 
A very ancient breed, Stone-­trolls owe their name to the 
fact that they turn to stone if exposed to the light of the Sun.
…there were three fair-­sized trolls at hand in a nasty mood, quite 
likely to try toasted dwarf, or even pony, for a change…
Stone-­troll Robber
A Stone-­troll Robber’s appearance, while always frightful, 
is made less monstrous by their tendency to wear simple 
clothes, cook their food and use tools like drinking jugs 
and barrels.
STONE-­TROLL ROBBER
Hungry, Irritable
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
8
ENDURANCE
60
MIGHT
2
HATE
8
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Club 3 (6/16, Break Shield),  
Crush 2 (6/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Hatred (Dwarves). When fighting Dwarves, 
all the creature’s rolls are Favoured.
Horrible Strength. If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill-­favoured.

THE LOREMASTER
153
Stone-­troll Chief
Small groups of Stone-­trolls may band together around 
a stronger member of their breed, to attack caravans of 
merchants or isolated farmhouses.
STONE-­TROLL CHIEF
Cruel, Suspicious
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
9
ENDURANCE
70
MIGHT
2
HATE
9
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Club 3 (6/16, Break Shield),  
Crush 2 (6/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Hatred (Dwarves). When fighting Dwarves, 
all the creature’s rolls are Favoured. 
Horrible Strength. If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill-­favoured.
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Trolls in the fight. 

CHAPTER 8
154
undead
Many horrors haunt the lonely lands of old Arnor, in the 
shadow of the darker woods and under the still waters of 
rotting marshes. Some say those shades are what remains 
of the ill-­will of evil Men and proud Elves, others that they 
are spirits out of Angmar, sent to infest barren hills and 
lonely barrows; others blame dark sorcery and evil curses. 
Whatever is their true nature, all Undead creatures are 
hard to defeat and provoke a sentiment of horror in those who 
encounter them — they all possess the following Fell Abilities.
	
♦
DEATHLESS. Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound. When 
an attack inflicts damage to the creature that would 
cause it to go to zero Endurance, spend 1 Hate to 
bring the creatures back to full Endurance instead. 
This ability is ineffective against Player-­heroes wield-
ing a magical weapon enchanted with spells for the 
Bane of the Undead.
	
♦
HEARTLESS: The creature is not affected by the Intim-
idate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained.
	
♦
THING OF TERROR: At the start of the first round of 
the battle all Player-heroes in sight of one or more 
creatures with this ability gain 3 Shadow points 
(Dread). Those who fail their Shadow test are daunted 
and cannot spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
wights
Wights are malevolent creatures inhabiting the cold flesh of 
the dead. They hunger for the life and warmth of those who 
are so unlucky to stumble into a region troubled by their pres-
ence. They strike from the cover of thick mists, or under the 
cloak of night, seeking to subdue their prey with their spells. 
They are hard to kill, and even if their body is destroyed, the 
spirit that animates them is unharmed, and flees to find some 
other barren place to haunt.
Barrow-­wights walked in the hollow places with a clink of rings on 
cold fingers, and gold chains in the wind.
Barrow-­wight
Sent to the hills of Tyrn Gorthad by the Witch-­king of Ang­
mar to plague his enemies in the wars against Arnor, a 
Barrow-­wight appears as a tall, dark figure, with cold eyes lit 
by a pale light. It wears rings on its skeletal fingers, and gold 
chains around its neck. In its grip an ancient, pitted blade. 
BARROW-­WIGHT
Cunning, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
1
HATE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Ancient Sword 3 (5/16, Pierce), 
Chilling Touch 2 (6/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Denizen of the Dark. All attack rolls are 
Favoured while in darkness.
Dreadful Spells. Spend 1 Hate to make one Player-­
hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Targets who fail 
their Shadow test or who are Miserable fall unconscious 
and may be roused only with a SONG roll. Otherwise, 
they wake up after one hour.
Hate Sunlight. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun. 

THE LOREMASTER
155
wraiths
It is said that many who fought in the wars against Angmar fell 
victim to the Black Shadow, a terrible illness spread by the Nazgûl. 
Many did not perish, and were slowly consumed by it instead. 
Wraiths are creatures that once were living beings but 
whose lives were consumed by sorcery or by another evil 
power. They are now undead, and live in both the living 
world and the wraith-­world. Wraiths maintain a physical shape, 
albeit partially faded and thus resistant to harm.
"Begone, if you be not deathless! For living or dark undead, I will 
smite you, if you touch him."
Fell Wraith
Fell Wraiths appear as crooked wanderers, roaming among 
ancient ruins, wrapped in cloaks hiding their spectral fea­
tures. Their flesh is almost transparent, and their eyes seem 
to glow like embers. If encountered in the hours of twilight, 
they may pass as Men, as they can speak, even if with an 
unusual hissing voice and strange accents. Fell Wraiths 
carry old weapons and battered shields, relics from an age 
of strife that they employ to deadly effectiveness.
FELL WRAITH
Swift, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
 +1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Pitted Blade 3 (4/16),  
Cruel Spear 2 (4/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Denizen of the Dark. All attack rolls are 
Favoured while in darkness.
Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is engaged in close combat with an adver­
sary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item. 
Marsh-­dwellers
The Marsh-­dwellers are shambling humanoid creatures 
with a clammy pale flesh, like that of a corpse left to rot in 
the water. A fell light in their small eyes suggests a wicked 
vitality and intent. They dwell among ruins, where Men 
used to live once, often by dark pools of stagnant water. 
They hide underground in small groups, ready to ambush 
unwary travellers and drag them in the cellars where they 
hoard their stolen gold.
MARSH DWELLERS
Fierce, Stealthy
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
3
ENDURANCE
12
MIGHT
1
HATE
3
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Bite 3 (3/14, Pierce),  
Claws 2 (3/14, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the 
start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an 
adversary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item.
Hate Sunlight. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun. 

CHAPTER 8
156
wolves of the wild
By the time of Bilbo’s adventures, Wargs and Werewolves 
could be encountered at night in the eastern vales close to 
the Misty Mountains, where they prowl in search of prey. Years 
later, packs of Wolves have crossed the Hithaeglir, and can 
be found across Eriador.
All Wolves share a prodigious agility that prevents their 
enemies from keeping a distance in combat — all Wolves of 
the Wild share the Great Leap Fell Ability.
	
♦
GREAT LEAP. Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player-­hero, 
in any combat stance, including Rearward.
wargs
Wargs are a particularly evil breed of Wolves, possessing 
wicked cunning and displaying malicious intent. They com-
municate using a dreadful language, foul to the ears of listen-
ers not sharing their love for cruel and hateful deeds. Wargs 
generally look like lean and powerfully-­built grey wolves, with 
eyes shining in the dark, but their size and appearance vary 
according to age and experience. 
“How the wind howls!” he cried. “It is howling with wolf-­voices. The 
Wargs have come west of the Mountains!”
Wild Wolf
The average Warg, a Wild Wolf, is slightly larger than an 
ordinary Wolf, and much more vicious. It can be encoun­
tered in a pack, but also as a solitary hunter or scout, ready 
to howl and alert other Wargs and evil creatures for miles 
around. Orcs learn how to ride upon Wild Wolves like 
men do on horses.
WILD WOLF
Keen-­eyed, Grim
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
3
ENDURANCE
12
MIGHT
1
HATE
3
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Fangs 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the 
start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an 
adversary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item.
Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured. 

THE LOREMASTER
157
Wolf-­chieftain
Greater in stature, cruelty and cunning than ordinary Wargs, 
a Wolf-­chieftain is called upon by its lesser kin to deal with 
serious threats, like bands of travelling adventurers trespass­
ing into Warg territory. A Wolf-­chieftain is never encountered 
alone, but always surrounded by a pack of Wild Wolves.
WOLF-­CHIEFTAIN
Swift, Vicious
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Fangs 3 (4/14, Pierce),  
Claws 2 (4/14, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the 
start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an 
adversary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item. 
Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured.
 Howl of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to 
all other Wargs in the fight.
werewolves
It is suspected by the most learned among the Wise that the 
cruelest packs of Wargs might be led by the foulest of crea-
tures: trusted servants of the Dark Lord returned from the 
Ancient World to serve him once again. Devouring spirits 
trapped in wolf-­form, they hate the very soil they walk upon, 
and desire only to defile and ruin in an attempt to quench 
the dreadful hunger that consumes their mortal bodies.
“Listen, Hound of Sauron!” he cried. “Gandalf is here. Fly, if you 
value your foul skin! I will shrivel you from tail to snout, if you 
come within this ring.”
Hound of Sauron
Chosen for its ferocity and malicious intelligence, a Hound 
of Sauron is a minion of the Dark Lord, a servant sent on a 
precise errand, be it the gathering of forces for a coming 
war, the hunt for a specific individual, or spying on an area. 
Hidden behind the shape of an ordinary Warg, a Hound 
of Sauron conceals much greater powers.
HOUND OF SAURON
Cunning, Fierce
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
2
HATE
5
PARRY
 +1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Fangs 3 (5/14, Pierce),  
Claws 3 (5/14, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES: Deadly Wound. Wounded targets make 
an Ill-­favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity of 
their injury.
Hideous Toughness. The creature is unaffected by 
unarmed attacks. Additionally, when an attack inflicts 
damage to the creature that would cause it to go to zero 
Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if the 
creature is still alive its Endurance score is set back at 
half its maximum rating.
Strike Fear. Spend 1 Hate to make all Player-­heroes 
in sight gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those who fail 
their Shadow test are daunted and cannot spend Hope 
for the rest of the fight.

CHAPTER 8
158
treasure
… about him on all sides, stretching away across the unseen floors, lay countless piles of precious 
things, gold wrought and unwrought, gems and jewels, and silver red-­stained in the ruddy light.’
Travelling across a land that has seen three Ages of the 
world, the adventurers are sooner or later bound to dis-
cover some form of treasure, and possibly claim it for 
themselves. Whether it is the forgotten hoard of a dead 
Dragon, a pile of gold and gems closely guarded by a 
Troll, or the loot accumulated by generations of raiding 
Goblins, treasure provides the Company with a focus for 
their adventuring, a means for the Player-­heroes to raise 
their personal prosperity, and another way to bring to 
light obscure tales from previous ages of Middle-­earth.
But there is more than just gold and precious stones 
to be found in deserted caverns and dark dungeons under 
the earth — in past ages of the world, Men, Elves, and 
Dwarves long laboured to craft marvellous things from 
metal and stone, and put into their work all their lore, 
power, and subtle skill. These wondrous jewels, famous 
blades, and suits of armour were given to sons and daugh-
ters as gifts, hoarded as treasures by greedy kings, and 
lusted after and even stolen by thieves and burglars. 
Finally, they were lost, and passed out of the memory 
of the living.
Such remarkable things are not meant to remain lost 
forever. Their original purpose may have been forgotten 
with the passing of centuries, together with the name of 
their makers, but a day will come when a worthy blade 
will be found in a barrow among swords of lesser lin-
eage, ready to serve a new fate in the hands of a hero; 
or, if the treasure had been left to rot in the shadow for 
too long, to work a curse upon them and draw them to 
a miserable end!
hoards
Any source of Treasure points encountered by the Company 
when exploring caverns, lairs, and old ruins qualifies as a 
Hoard. Not all Hoards that Player-­heroes can discover are 
equal though — as shown in the table below, they are ranked 
in three levels of increasing rarity: lesser, greater, and marvel-
lous, based on how rich, old, or unspoilt they are. 
On average, the Company should find a maximum of 
two Hoards during the same Adventuring Phase — a 
lesser Hoard and a greater one; or, a single marvel-
lous Hoard.
When the Player-­heroes stumble upon a Hoard, the first thing 
that the Lore­master must do is to make a roll to determine 
its worth in Treasure points.
As shown in the Hoard table below, the value of a 
Hoard in Treasure points is determined by rolling 
from 1 to 3 Success dice, based on its type, and by 
multiplying the result by the number of Player-­heroes 
in the Company. 
It is up to the members of the Company to divide the resulting 
value among themselves, splitting the Treasure rating as they 
see fit, and recording their share on their character sheets.
Generally, a Hoard’s value in Treasure points represents an 
unspecified amount of silver, gold and gems — if the Lore­master 
wishes to be more specific, the rules for Precious Objects on the 
following page can be used to craft one or more unusual finds.
HOARD TABLE:
HOARD 
RATING
EXAMPLES
TREASURE VALUE PER 
PLAYER-­HERO
MAGICAL TREASURE ROLLS
Lesser
Solitary Troll’s loot, Goblin plunder,  
bandits’ hoard
Roll 1 Success die
Roll the Feat die twice
Greater
Old hoard, Dwarf-­hoard
Roll 2 Success dice
Roll the Feat die four times
Marvellous
Ancient hoard, Dwarven city’s treasure trove,  
or Dragon-­hoard
Roll 3 Success dice
Roll the Feat die six times

THE LOREMASTER
159
MAGICAL TREASURE ROLLS
Once everyone in the Company has received their share of the 
treasure, it must be determined if anything possessing excep-
tional qualities lies buried among the silver and gold. 
To do this, the players or the Lore­master roll a Feat die 
a number of times (or many Feat dice together, if available), 
again based on the type of Hoard discovered:
Each  and 
 result corresponds to the discovery of 
a magical piece of treasure. To find out exactly what 
each piece is, the players must roll on the Magical 
Treasure table above, once.
Once the number and nature of any Magical Treasure discov-
ered has been determined, the Player-­heroes must agree on 
who is going to keep each piece as their possession.
CARRYING TREASURE
Player-­heroes stuff their pockets with coins and other valu-
ables, or, more wisely, they can burden their pack animals 
with chests filled with their newfound riches.
In terms of encumbrance, every single point of Trea-
sure, individual Marvellous Artefact or Wondrous 
Item corresponds to one point of Load (famous Weap-
ons and Armour have their individual Load ratings, 
based on the corresponding pieces of War Gear).
If the Player-­heroes are not willing to carry the amount of 
gold, silver, gems, or other valuables they have found while 
adventuring, the Player-­heroes may opt to hide it close to 
where they found it, with the intention of returning to 
recover it later.
creating precious objects
Precious Objects are gemstones, jewels, and other valuable 
ornaments whose main quality could be a particular signif-
icance as a family heirloom or antique, or an extraordinary 
and enchanting beauty, possibly due to a prodigious level of 
craftsmanship or a subtle virtue. 
The value of a Precious Object in Treasure points is 
the amount that the Lore­master assigns to it, out of 
the rating generated for the Hoard discovered by the 
Company, but its inclusion in the game might serve a 
different purpose.
For example, a golden crown found among the ruins of an 
ancient castle on the hills of Rhudaur may have more than 
MAGICAL TREASURE TABLE:
SUCCESS DIE 
RESULT
NATURE OF THE FIND
DESCRIPTION
IF FOUND ON AN 
 RESULT
1–3
Marvellous Artefact
An enchanted object graced by a 
Blessing
Gain 1 Shadow (Greed)
4–5
Wondrous Item
An enchanted object possessing two 
Blessings
Gain 2 Shadow (Greed)
6
Famous Weapon or Armour
A weapon or suit of armour of superior 
make
Gain 3 Shadow (Greed)
EXTRAORDINARY PRECIOUS 
OBJECTS FROM THE STORIES
The following Precious Objects are examples of 
valuable items whose worth greatly surpasses their 
simple rating in Treasure points:
	
♦The Ring of Barahir — A ring made by the 
Noldor ages ago, it is an heirloom of the house 
of the Chieftains of the Rangers of the North.
	
♦The Necklace of Girion — A necklace crafted 
for the Lord of Dale, made of five hundred 
emeralds “green as grass”.
	
♦The Arkenstone — A wonderful, multi-­faceted 
great white gem, called the Heart of the 
Mountain, a heirloom of the Kings of the 
House of Durin.
“This is a thing of worth beyond your reckoning. 
For its ancientry alone. It has no power, save the 
esteem in which those hold it who love my house.”

CHAPTER 8
160
a simple monetary value if it is brought to someone able to 
recognise it as a relic from a familiar past — should a Player-­
hero make a gift or otherwise offer such an item to members 
of a folk whose tradition hearkens back to the time when the 
item was crafted, they would receive a bonus amount for sen-
timental value in return. 
The tables presented below can be used to create an 
item at the moment it is uncovered, or to design it care-
fully beforehand. The Lore­master is encouraged to enrich 
the description of all Precious Objects or spend some time 
imagining wonderful things with rich backstories. It is not 
necessary to track down the full lineage of every crystal 
hanging from a fillet of Mithril; a few hints to a tragic or 
heroic heritage is more than enough to evoke the right 
mood. 
This sort of information may be revealed to a player who 
chooses the Meet Patron undertaking during a Fellow­ship 
phase (see page 121).
PRECIOUS OBJECTS TABLES
Roll a Success die for each table and check the result.
1: FORM
1
Jewel (single gem)
2
Brooch
3
Necklace
4
Circlet or crown
5
Belt, chain, or armband
6
Ring
2: MAIN MATERIAL
1
Pearl
2
Sapphire
3
Ruby
4
Amethyst (pink to purple)
5
Roll again: 1–2: Adamant (diamond); 3–4: ‘white 
gem’; 5–6: clear crystal
6
Roll again: 1–2: Emerald; 3–4: ‘green gem’; 5–6: 
green crystal
3: CRAFTSMANSHIP
1
Mannish, Westernesse
2
Elven, Eregion
3
Dwarven, Khazad-­dûm
4
Dwarven, Erebor
5
Dwarven, Beleriand (Nogrod or Belegost)
6
Elven, Beleriand
the treasure index
Finding a magic ring or a famous sword in The One Ring is not 
simply a matter of stumbling upon an exotic object. There is 
more to chance than coincidence in Middle-­earth, as there 
are other powers at work far stronger.
A Lore­master wanting to add spell-­bound gems and Elven 
blades to a game must first take some time to create a Trea-
sure Index:
A Treasure Index is a list detailing all the magical 
items that can become part of the campaign. When 
something is uncovered with a Magical Treasure roll, 
the Lore­master refers to the Treasure Index to check 
exactly what has been brought to light.
Using the index allows the Lore­master to keep a tight control 
over the desired level of magic to introduce into the game, 
avoiding the problem of having too many heroes wandering 
around Middle-­earth wielding Beleriand-­forged blades or 
wearing Mithril armour. 
Additionally, the index lets the Lore­master ‘time’ the 
appearance of certain magical items in the campaign — for 
example, to follow a wide-­arcing plot involving the discovery 
GEMS, JEWELS, AND CRYSTALS
Many beautiful gems freed from the roots of 
mountains and hills were cut and set in necklaces, 
crowns, circlets, and bracelets of precious metals 
by Dwarven smiths of great renown, in cities like 
Nogrod and Belegost, before Beleriand was bro­
ken. Many crystals and white or green gems of 
surpassing beauty were not dug from the earth, 
but created by the hands of Elven craftspeople 
and gem-­smiths, and filled cunningly with flam­
ing light.

THE LOREMASTER
161
of a particular object. Certain events might be triggered by 
the fortuitous finding of a lost artefact, or the Player-­heroes 
could be left wondering how to confront a seemingly invinci-
ble threat, until they finally ‘stumble’ upon a weapon capable 
of giving them an edge.
Finally, the index helps in keeping magical objects unique 
and wondrous. Finding a magical item should represent a 
major turning point in a campaign, with definite conse-
quences on the future of a hero. A magical object isn’t just 
a new special ability, but a new feature in the game world. 
COMPILING A TREASURE INDEX
Magical items in The One Ring are categorised as Marvellous 
Artefacts, Wondrous Items, and Famous Weapons and Armour. 
Treasure Index sheets can be downloaded from freeleague-
publishing.com — one to keep track of Marvellous Artefacts 
and Wondrous Items, and another for Famous Weapons and 
Armour.
When compiling a Magical Treasure Index, the Lore­
master includes as many Marvellous Artefacts as 
desired, while a specific list must be made to indi-
cate precisely the number and nature of any Won-
drous Items and Famous Weapons and Armour that 
the Player-­heroes will have a chance to find (ideally, 1 
to 3 Wondrous Items and 1 to 3 pieces of war gear for 
each Player-­hero in the Company).
SAMPLE INDEXES: Available for download from freeleaguepub-
lishing.com are a number of sample indexes, created with dif-
ferent goals in mind. The title of each index and its descrip-
tion detail its goal and application. Lore­masters are encour-
aged to create their own indexes though, based around the 
composition of the Company playing in their campaigns.
marvellous artefacts 
and wondrous items
Objects included in this category possess characteristics that 
mortals wouldn’t hesitate to call magical: cloaks that hide their 
wearers from observing eyes, war-­horns capable of setting fear 
in the hearts of enemies and joy in the hearts of friends, staves 
blessed with virtues of finding and returning.
Such objects are wound about with powerful enchantments 
called Blessings. An object possessing one Blessing is called a 
Marvellous Artefact, while one possessing two Blessings is a Won-
drous Item. 
A single Blessing bestowed upon an object lets its bearer 
affect the result of all rolls made using a specific Skill. An object 
possessing two Blessings will then modify the outcome of two 
different Skills. 
The bearer of a Marvellous Artefact or Wondrous Item 
gains (2d) when making rolls using the Skill correspond-
ing to its Blessing, and allows the Player-­hero to achieve 
a magical success (see page 21).
When a blessed item is found, the Lore­master either chooses 
an object included in the Treasure Index, or uses the Blessings 
tables overleaf to create one.
Marvellous Artefacts and Wondrous Items should be rare 
and unique, lest their worth be diminished in the eyes of the 
players. The Lore­master should use the directions contained 
in this chapter and their knowledge of the source material to 
create a limited number of such objects for inclusion in a Trea-
sure Index — two or three per Player-­hero at most. Should that 
FATE AND PREDESTINATION
The creation of custom special items to be found 
among Treasure is meant to represent predes­
tination, the potential of a hero to become the 
instrument of a higher purpose and to play a role 
in the long-­term development of a campaign. To 
further reinforce this, Magical Treasure is meant 
to be strictly individual: heroes should never pass 
the object found over to a different companion, 
especially when Famous Weapons and Armour are 
concerned. After all, it was Bilbo who was meant to 
find the Ring, not Balin, Gandalf, or Thorin.
A FATEFUL DISCOVERY 
Marvellous Artefacts and Wondrous Items can 
become a meaningful addition to a campaign 
especially if their discovery is tied to some sig­
nificant event, or if their introduction is meant to 
serve a particular purpose. 
When the Lore­master is compiling the Trea­
sure Index, some time should be dedicated to con­
sidering the objective of an item, in the context 
of the campaign being played. Or, its goal might 
be left undefined, to be then filled in when the 
players provide the Lore­master with the right sug­
gestions through their own actions.

CHAPTER 8
162
list run out, the Lore­master may create additional ones, either 
taking the time to design them or rolling them up on the spot.
The capabilities of an object may not be readily apparent 
upon discovery. While it is possible that a hero finds out while 
adventuring, a Player-­hero may learn about an item’s Bless-
ings by choosing the Meet Patron Fellow­ship phase under-
taking (see page 121). 
BLESSINGS TABLES
To determine which skill is affected by a Blessing the Lore­
master rolls a Success die twice: the first roll selects the Skill 
‘group’, the second roll identifies the affected Skill. The pro-
cedure must be repeated if the object is a Wondrous Item 
bestowed with two Blessings. 
In brackets are listed options to help the Lore­master in choos-
ing the type of object discovered, whether it is a ring, a cloak, a belt, 
or something else. If the same item possesses two Blessings, choose 
the type of object that seems more appropriate. To determine the 
craftsmanship of the find you may also use the tables on page 160.
1: PERSONALITY
1–2
AWE (ring, cloak, circlet, collar, belt, weapon 
sheath, staff, war-­horn)
3–4
ENHEARTEN (ring, cloak, weapon sheath, staff, 
war-­horn)
5–6
PERSUADE (ring, cloak, circlet, collar)
2: MOVEMENT
1–2
ATHLETICS (rope, boots, shoes)
3–4
TRAVEL (staff, belt, boots)
5–6
STEALTH (ring, cloak, shoes)
3: PERCEPTION
1–2
AWARENESS (ring, circlet, collar)
3–4
INSIGHT (ring, circlet, collar)
5–6
SCAN (ring, circlet, staff)
4: SURVIVAL
1–2
HUNTING (belt, hunting horn, staff)
3–4
HEALING (unusual, as potions and salves quickly 
lose their virtue)
5–6
EXPLORE (boots, staff, coil of rope)
5: CUSTOM
1–2
COURTESY (ring, circlet, pair of studs)
3–4
SONG (ring, musical instrument)
5–6
RIDDLE (ring)
6: VOCATION
1–2
CRAFT (ring, crafting tool)
3–4
BATTLE (crown, ring, staff, war-­horn - rare, as it 
usually pertains to weapons)
5–6
LORE (mirror, book, seeing-­stone)
famous weapons 
and armour
Weapons of extraordinary craftsmanship are already dealt 
with in the game using the rules for Rewards. While those 
items could arguably be considered magical, their lineage can 
hardly be compared with that of swords forged in Gondolin 
for the Goblin-­wars.
When a Player-­hero gains possession of such an extraor-
dinary weapon, the Lore­master must consult the campaign’s 
Treasure Index — If the circumstances are appropriate, the 
Lore­master may select an item from those added to the Index 
specifically for the Player-­hero.
DESIGNING FAMOUS WEAPONS 
AND ARMOUR
To design a magical sword or a wondrous coat of armour for 
insertion into the Treasure Index, the Lore­master must fol-
low a 5-step process, making a number of choices based on 
the current campaign and the composition of the Company:
1.	 Choose Item Type
2.	 Determine Craftsmanship
3.	 Select Banes (Elven or Númenórean weapons only)
4.	 Attribute Qualities
5.	 Name the item
1. CHOOSE ITEM TYPE: The first thing to choose is the most 
important one: what piece of war gear is the object of the 
design? Is it a weapon, or a piece of defensive gear, like a 
mail shirt, or a helm or shield?
A Treasure Index must only include items that are 
designed explicitly for specific members of the Company; 
there is no place for a wondrous shield that none of the play-
ers will be interested in using.

THE LOREMASTER
163
For example, the Lore­master is designing a famous 
weapon meant for the Barding warden of the Company. The 
warrior uses a sword as his primary weapon. The Lore­master 
selects a sword as the item type.
2. DETERMINE CRAFTSMANSHIP: Weapons and armour can be 
of Elven, Dwarven, or Númenórean craftsmanship. The fol-
lowing paragraphs give some insight about which item types 
are most suited to a particular origin. Apart from defining in 
broad terms the history of an item, the choice of craftsman-
ship also determines whether a weapon should feature Banes 
or not, and affects the choice of Qualities (see Steps 3 and 4).
Elven Craftsmanship: The best enchanted weapons that may 
be found in forgotten hoards were made by Elvenwrights 
in Beleriand in the Elder Days, or in Eregion, for the wars 
against Sauron.
Glamdring and Orcrist are good examples, not to men-
tion Bilbo’s (and later Frodo’s) sword Sting.
The Elves forged many famous long swords, daggers, 
and enchanted spears. Other weapons or pieces of 
defensive war gear are not unknown, but more dif-
ficult to find.
Dwarven Craftsmanship: Many extraordinary swords, helms, 
and suits of armour were wrought by Dwarves in their cities of 
Nogrod and Belegost, either for use by their most renowned 
chieftains and champions, or as gifts to the greatest lords 
amongst Elves and Men.
The works of Telchar, the smith of Nogrod, are particu-
larly renowned: the sword Narsil and the Helm of Hador were 
among his chief creations.
The smiths of Nogrod and Belegost crafted especially 
swords and axes, shields, helms, and suits of armour.
Númenórean Craftsmanship: The weaponsmiths among the 
Men of Westernesse were taught by the Noldor in the making 
of swords, axe-­blades, spearheads, and knives. They acquired 
great skill, and put it to good use in forging many weapons 
using strange metals. 
The barrow-­blades Tom Bombadil gave to the Hobbits 
were weapons of this sort; swords forged by the Númenóreans 
for their bitter wars against Carn Dûm in the Land of Angmar.
The Men of Westernesse excelled in the making of 
many weapons, but rarely devoted themselves to the 
creation of suits of armour, recognising the greater 
ability of Dwarf-­smiths.
3. SELECT BANES: Bane weapons describe instruments of war 
that have been wrought to defeat a specific enemy. If the mag-
ical item is of Elven or Númenórean craftsmanship, then it 
may be attributed with one or more Banes, as several of the 
special virtues that may be attributed to it are effective only 
against Bane creatures (see Enchanted Qualities, on page 
165). A Bane weapon provides special benefits against one 
or more creature types.
Blades, spears, and arrow-­heads forged in Númenor may 
have been wound about with spells for the bane of two crea-
ture types.
Choose two types from the following: Orcs, Trolls, 
Wolves, Evil Men, Undead.
Items crafted by the Elven-­smiths of Beleriand or Eregion 
were generally created with only one type of enemy in mind.
Choose one type from: Orcs, Wolves, or Spiders.
Particularly ancient and rare, some blades may have been 
wrought for the bane of the Enemy itself, and as such may be 
particularly dangerous to all his servants and minions.
4. ATTRIBUTE QUALITIES: Player-­heroes may improve their 
war gear by upgrading their weapons of choice using Rewards. 
Similarly, Famous Weapons and Armour owe their qualities 
to Rewards and Enchanted Rewards.
Upon creation, a number of qualities must be attributed 
to the magical item, choosing among the Rewards listed on 
page 79, and the Enchanted Rewards described in this chapter, 
starting overleaf. The mix and number of qualities attributed 
to an object determine how powerful it will be.
	
♦Generally, a famous weapon or piece of defensive gear 
should feature a maximum of 3 qualities, and must 
include a minimum of one Enchanted Reward. 
	
♦All qualities of an item can be recorded on the Magical 
Treasure Index in any order desired, keeping in mind 
that the qualities that are listed first are the ones that 
the owner will discover soonest (see overleaf).
5. NAME THE ITEM: Precious Objects and Wondrous Artefacts 
rarely possess proper names — They are usually named after 
their maker, or after their most famous owner (‘The Neck-
lace of Girion’, ‘The Arkenstone of Thrain’, ‘The Phial of 
Galadriel’). On the contrary, Famous Weapons and Armour 
often have a name, or even more than one, if the item is 
known by different folks.
All pieces of war gear included in a Treasure Index should 
be given an appropriate name, along with a set of historical 

CHAPTER 8
164
notes. The name of an item can be revealed to its bearer 
who researches it or asks a lore-­master about it (see the Meet 
Patron Fellow­ship Phase undertaking, on page 121).
A player is, of course, free to name an item themselves 
much as Bilbo did with Sting — either because the object does 
not have a known name or the companion isn’t interested in 
discovering it. The notes about Named Weapons on page 80 
can provide useful suggestions.
HOW FAMOUS WEAPONS 
AND ARMOUR WORK
When a companion first uses a Famous Weapon or Armour, 
the item displays only the characteristics of the first quality 
listed in its entry in the Lore­master’s Treasure index.
The remaining features are secret and considered to be 
‘dormant’. They may be unlocked in the order that they have 
been listed on the Treasure Index in one of two ways — by 
gaining a new VALOUR rank, and by visiting the Treasury of 
their folk as a Fellow­ship Phase Undertaking.
GAINING A NEW VALOUR RANK: It is said that valour first needs 
strength, and then a weapon: the more the Player-­heroes grow in 
heroic stature, the more powerful their magical items become.
Each time that the Player-­heroes are entitled to gain a 
new Reward as the consequence of gaining a new rank 
in VALOUR, they may choose instead to activate one 
quality of a Famous Weapon or Armour that belongs 
to them.
EXAMPLE: 
An Elven adventurer recently found the Raven Axe of Arnor 
in a Troll’s hoard while exploring the Ettenmoors. It dis-
played its first quality — Foe-­slaying — as soon as she 
found it. In a subsequent Fellow­ship phase she increases her 
VALOUR. Instead of choosing a new Reward, she chooses to 
activate the Raven Axe’s next quality: Fell.
VISITING THE TREASURY: The treasuries of most folks have 
been created with the loot of many wars, but also by the find-
ings of generations of adventurers.
When Player-­heroes gain possession of a Famous 
Weapon or Armour, they can return home as a Fellow­
ship Phase undertaking (see page 121), to leave a piece 
of war gear enhanced by one or more Rewards as a 
gift to their folk. 
These gift-­giving acts alter the identity of the Player-­heroes in 
the eyes of their folk: they become the bearers of their newly-­
found enchanted items, and the objects left behind become 
‘cultural treasures’.
In game terms, upon their visit to the treasury of their 
folk, Player-­heroes trade the number of Rewards pos-
sessed by the piece of war gear given as a gift with the 
activation of an equal number of qualities on a Famous 
Weapon or Armour.
EXAMPLE: 
While clearing an abandoned Dwarven keep of Goblins, a 
Barding hero found the Rune-­shield of Ossiriand, which dis-
played its first quality, Ancient Cunning Make. The adven-
turer previously carried a Reinforced shield, gifted to him 
by the elders of his city. The following Fellow­ship Phase he 
undertakes to visit the treasury of Dale, returning the shield 
so that it may faithfully serve another. As he is trading in 
one previous Reward, he can activate another quality pos-
sessed by the Rune-shield.
BANE WEAPONS
In addition to being possibly more effective 
against the types of creatures they were crafted to 
defeat, Bane weapons are destructive to elements 
connected to the creatures that are the object of 
the Bane, and would immediately be recognised 
as such by them.
For example, Orcs would not dare touch a 
blade forged for the bane of their kind, and a 
sword created for the destruction of giant Spiders 
would easily cut through the thickest of their webs.
SEEKING A LORE-­MASTER
A companion who wishes to know more about a 
Famous Weapon or Armour may visit an appropri­
ate location and choose the Meet Patron undertak­
ing during a Yule Fellow­ship Phase (see page 121).

THE LOREMASTER
165
ENCHANTED REWARDS
All the qualities described here set the craftsmanship of 
an item apart from any other. The extraordinary charac-
teristics of the object may be the result of ancient spells or 
graven runes, or they may be due to the innate qualities of 
the materials used for its crafting, or a combination of all 
such elements.
Often, the magical power of the object makes the item 
gleam with an unnatural light or appear as if burning with 
an enchanted flame, but in other cases the magical quality is 
more discreet, if noticeable at all. The Lore­master is encour-
aged to embellish the description of each Famous Weapon 
or Armour with appropriately epic details (or leave them to 
the owner of the object to devise).
Each Enchanted Reward’s description includes any 
requirement that the enhanced object must satisfy for the 
quality to be applied to it. Qualities indicating a specific crafts-
manship (Elven, Dwarven, or Númenórean) exemplify the 
features of war gear created by weaponsmiths and armourers 
belonging to that culture.
Lore­masters must keep in mind that they may apply a 
maximum of 3 Rewards (Enchanted or ordinary) to a 
Famous Weapon or Armour, always including a mini-
mum of 1 Enchanted Reward. All Enchanted Rewards 
are unique, meaning that they can only be applied 
once to the same item.
The Lore­master should note that the first six Enchanted 
Rewards are enhanced versions of those described on 
page 79 — qualities sharing a common descriptor can-
not be attributed to the same item. (For example, a 
Grievous sword cannot be given the Superior Grievous 
Enchanted Quality.) Moreover, when designing an Elven 
or Númenórean weapon, the Lore­master should be sure 
to bestow upon it at least one Enchanted Reward that pos-
sesses the Bane requirement.
ANCIENT CLOSE FITTING
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven, Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Armour, Helm
When you make a PROTECTION roll while wearing a piece 
of armour or helm with this quality you add 3 to the 
result, or a bonus equal to your VALOUR rating, which-
ever is higher. 
ANCIENT CUNNING MAKE
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven, Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Armour, Helm, or Shield
This quality lowers the Load rating of an item by 3 points, or 
by your VALOUR rating, whichever is higher (to a minimum 
of 0 Load).
SUPERIOR FELL
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven, Númenórean
	
♦
ITEM: Any weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane (if Númenórean)
If the weapon is of Elven Craftsmanship, add 4 to its Injury 
rating. If the weapon is of Númenórean craftsmanship, add 2 
to its Injury rating, or a bonus equal to the bearer’s VALOUR 
(whichever is higher) if used against a Bane creature.
SUPERIOR GRIEVOUS
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven, Númenórean
	
♦
ITEM: Any weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane (if Númenórean)
If the weapon is of Dwarven craftsmanship, add 2 to its Dam-
age rating. If the weapon is of Númenórean craftsmanship, 
add 1 to its Damage rating, or a bonus equal to the bearer’s 
VALOUR if used against a Bane creature.
SUPERIOR KEEN
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven, Elven
	
♦
ITEM: Any weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane (if Elven)
If the weapon is of Dwarven craftsmanship, it scores a Pierc-
ing Blow on a result of 8+. If the weapon is of Elven crafts-
manship, it scores a Piercing Blow on a result of 9+, or on a 
result of 10 minus a value equal to the bearer’s VALOUR if 
used against a Bane creature.
SUPERIOR REINFORCED
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Any
	
♦
ITEM: Shield
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane (if Elven or Númenórean)
This quality adds 2 to a shield’s Parry bonus. If the shield is 
of Númenórean or Elven craftsmanship, add 1 to its Parry 
bonus, or a bonus equal to the bearer’s VALOUR when fight-
ing against a Bane creature.

CHAPTER 8
166
BITING DART
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven
	
♦
ITEM: Ranged weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane
When you hit your target using a weapon with this quality you 
also inflict a loss of 1 point of Hate or Resolve, or 3 points if 
it’s a Bane creature.
CLEAVING
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: any
	
♦
ITEM: Close combat weapon
When you kill a foe with a weapon blessed by this quality, you 
can immediately attack a second adversary engaged with you.
FLAME OF HOPE
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Close combat weapon
When you hit your target with a weapon blessed by this quality, 
all members of the Company (you included) recover 1 point 
of Endurance, plus 1 for each  rolled.
FOE-­SLAYING
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven, Númenórean 
	
♦
ITEM: Any weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane
When you score a Piercing Blow on a Bane creature, the PRO-
TECTION roll of the target is Ill-favoured. If the roll was already 
Ill-favoured for any reason, then the Piercing Blow scores an 
automatic Wound instead.
GLEAM OF TERROR
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Close combat weapon
When you hit your target using a weapon with this quality you 
also inflict a loss of 2 points of Hate or Resolve.
HAMMERING
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: any
	
♦
ITEM: Close combat weapon
A creature hit by this weapon and suffering an Endurance 
loss equal or superior to twice its Attribute level is addition-
ally knocked back and must spend its next main action to 
stand up.
HOLLOW STEEL
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Númenórean
	
♦
ITEM: Bows
	
♦
SPECIAL: no Bane required
You are always allowed to make one additional opening vol-
ley, even when no opening volleys are allowed (unless you 
are surprised).
LUMINESCENCE
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Elven
	
♦
ITEM: Close combat weapon
	
♦
SPECIAL: Bane
This quality makes the weapon’s blade shine with a pale, cold 
light when a Bane creature is nearby. You and all members 
of the Company succeed automatically on all rolls made to 
avoid being ambushed by such creatures.
MITHRIL ARMOUR
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Mail Armour
A mail shirt and a coat of mail made of Mithril have a Load 
rating of 3 and 6, respectively.
RUNE-­SCORED ARMOUR
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Armour
When you make a PROTECTION test while wearing a Rune-­scored 
Armour, you ignore the effects of being Miserable or Weary.
RUNE-­SCORED HELM
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Helm
When you make a Skill roll attempting any Combat Task while 
wearing a Rune-­scored Helm, you ignore the effects of being 
Miserable or Weary.
RUNE-­SCORED SHIELD
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven
	
♦
ITEM: Shield
When you are fighting with a Rune-­scored Shield, attack rolls 
targeting you are made as if the adversary was Weary.
RUNE-­SCORED WEAPON
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Dwarven, Elven
	
♦
ITEM: Any weapon

THE LOREMASTER
167
When you make an attack roll using a weapon possessing this 
quality, you ignore the effects of being Miserable or Weary.
STRAIGHT FLIGHT
	
♦
CRAFTSMANSHIP: Any
	
♦
ITEM: Ranged weapon
The bearer of such a weapon always enjoys a clean shot, even 
when they are shooting against a strong wind, or their tar-
get is protected by darkness, or other elements that would 
modify their Attack roll negatively (the attacker ignores any 
modifiers due to complications).
cursed items
Items that have been buried in darkness for centuries repre-
sent a potential threat to adventurers and their lust for power. 
Sometimes, a treasure has been left to rot long enough for the 
Shadow to have wound about it an even darker fate.
If a Player-­hero uncovered a piece of Magical Trea-
sure, be it a Marvellous Artefact, a Wondrous Item, 
or a Famous Weapon and Armour, the Lore­master 
may additionally take the chance to introduce a Curse.
A cursed item does not differ from an unmarred one in its 
virtues. The Lore­master simply proceeds to design the Curse 
that is laid upon it, either by choosing a Curse designed previ-
ously for the campaign, or by creating one on the spot using 
the rules below.
HOW TO DESIGN A CURSE
A Curse bestows an item with an additional feature, similar to 
a Blessing or a Reward, except that it has a detrimental effect 
rather than a positive one. The Lore­master may consult the list 
of sample Curses found overleaf to select the most appropriate 
one, or to use them as inspiration to design new ones.
A Curse may not be initially apparent, but instead be acti-
vated by a specific circumstance. Examples of circumstances that 
might trigger a Curse include: leaving the area where the cursed 
CURSED PRECIOUS OBJECTS
Generally, only Magical Treasure can be cursed, 
but if the Lore­master wishes, it is of course possi­
ble to lay a curse upon a heap of gold or a chest 
of precious gems, but usually that type of treasure 
just has an ill feeling about it and a character may 
struggle to sell it. To make things slightly darker, a 
cursed Precious Object might be denied any sen­
timental value (see page 160).

CHAPTER 8
168
item was found; exposing the object to the light of the moon; 
at the first shedding of blood; in the presence of a specific type 
of creature; upon entering a dark land.
When creating a cursed item, the Lore­master must also 
secretly decide how its Curse can be lifted. This should be no 
small task and should definitely form the focus of an Adventur-
ing phase in its own right. For example, a Curse might only be 
lifted at the place of the item’s forging, or by the light of the 
same moon by which it was made. It might require the casting 
of an ancient spell lost to the ages or by the slaying of a partic-
ularly dangerous creature.
Note that a cursed item is not an evil artefact, or a device 
created by the Enemy or meant to condemn a companion to a 
life of misery. It is a wonderful object bearing a lasting trace of 
darkness. While it may make a hero’s life more dangerous for 
a while, the introduction of a cursed item is primarily meant to 
make the game more exciting!
Once a Curse has been removed, the item reverts to being 
a regular magical item.
Here follow a number of examples.
CURSE OF WEAKNESS: The Cursed Player-­hero displays the 
worst Flaw connected to their own Shadow Path.
	
♦Cowardly (Wandering-­madness). When the curse takes 
hold of the bearer, all they can think of is turning tail 
and fleeing into the night.
	
♦Fearful (Path of Despair). The curse undermines the 
spirit of the bearer, casting a shadow of fear and doubt 
over every action and decision.
	
♦Murderous (Curse of Vengeance). A terrible thirst for 
blood and malevolence lies within the item, provoking 
the bearer to dark thoughts of violence and murder.
	
♦Thieving (Dragon-­sickness). The item glitters with a 
sickly light that causes the bearer to desire more and 
more.
	
♦Tyrannical (Lure of Power). The item foments a sense of 
overconfidence and arrogance within the bearer, causing 
them to belittle and undermine their companions.
	
♦Traitorous (Lure of Secrets). The item fosters thoughts of 
paranoia and discord within the mind of its bearer, caus-
ing them to mistake their friends for foes. 
Note that this Flaw is considered temporary, and does not 
count for the purposes of Succumbing to the Shadow.
DARKEN: When the item is revealed (a sword is unsheathed, 
a glove is removed to reveal a ring and so on) all shadows in 
the area seem to deepen, and all sources of light seem to grow 
weak. The phenomenon is particularly serious for the bearer 
of the item, who finds their sight seriously impaired. Since no 
source of light is able to dispel this darkness, bystanders are 
confused and disoriented. This causes all appropriate rolls 
made by the bearer to lose (1d).
HUNTED: The presence of the item does not go unnoticed, 
and one type of enemy (Orcs, Evil Men, the Enemy) per-
ceive it when they come near it. In addition, journey events 
experienced by a travelling Company may be made to revolve 
around this hunt.
ILL-­LUCK: Bad luck dogs the bearer at every turn, their victo-
ries turned to defeats by simple — but persistent — misfor-
tune. A roll of an 
 on the Feat die obtained on any roll 
means an automatic failure for the bearer (as if the Player-­
hero was Miserable).
ILL-­OMEN: The bearer’s arrival is preceded by dark warnings 
and fell omens, filling the hearts of former allies with dread 
and fear. This causes all rolls made by the bearer during a 
Council to lose (1d).
DISCOVERING THE ONE RING
Bilbo’s discovery of the One Ring in Gollum’s cave 
is a shining example of predestination, as discussed 
on page 161. Bilbo was meant to find the Ring, and 
then to pass it over to Frodo. Perhaps the Lore­master 
of Bilbo’s campaign was planning very far ahead 
indeed — or maybe they didn't even realise at the 
time quite what they had created — the goal might 
have been merely to give the Burglar a Marvellous 
Artefact bestowed with a Blessing of STEALTH.
But how can the Ruling Ring of Sauron be cre­
ated under the Magical Treasure rules? The short 
answer is that it can’t: it is the greatest magical 
artefact ever created in the history of Middle-­earth 
after all. But let’s indulge a little bit more… The 
Ring would probably have a Blessing of Stealth 
for its capability to make its wearer invisible, but 
eventually reveal later to bestow another Blessing 
on the skill that better defines its wearer’s ambi­
tions and desires: AWE for a mighty warrior, BAT-
TLE for a leader of Men, CRAFT for someone who 
would desire to create things, INSIGHT for those 
who seek to know the hearts of others… But what 
about its Curses? Well, let’s not even get started…

THE LOREMASTER
169
MALICE: The object does not love its bearer, and will try to 
cause them harm, or otherwise trouble them. If a roll con-
cerns the item (as in the case of a Skill roll augmented by a 
Blessing, an attack roll for a weapon, a PROTECTION roll for 
armour), the companion is prevented from spending Hope 
to gain bonus dice.
OWNED: The item is owned or was created by another crea-
ture, much as the Ring was owned by Sauron. The item 
may have found its way into the hands of the Player-­hero 
so it might eventually return to its master. The Lore­master 
should decide upon a specific enemy to be the owner of the 
item, possibly choosing a recurring villain in the campaign. 
When in the presence of its owner, the item becomes use-
less: its special features turn out to be completely ineffective.
SHADOW TAINT: The item bears a greater shadow-­stain 
upon it than most cursed items. As long as the hero carries 
the item, their Shadow score is augmented: by 1 point for 
an artefact with one Blessing, 2 for one with 2 Blessings; 
in the case of a Famous Weapon or Armour, the Shadow 
increase is equal to twice the number of Enchanted 
Rewards on the item. This Shadow increase cannot be 
removed or healed, and will raise the hero’s Shadow score 
until the Curse is lifted.
WEAKENING: The item’s Curse worms away at its bearer, bring-
ing with it a terrible weakness. The Lore­master chooses either 
STRENGTH, HEART, or WITS. The bearer sees the associated 
Attribute TN raised by 2 points.
the eye of mordor
“The number must be few, since your hope is in speed and secrecy. Had I a host of Elves in 
armour of the Elder Days, it would avail little, save to arouse the power of Mordor.”
As the Twilight of the Third Age darkens and the War of 
the Ring approaches, the will of the Dark Lord pushes 
all wicked things to evil ends. Since its revelation in the 
year 2951, Sauron is awake and his spies and servants are 
abroad once again.
Many unfriendly things having little love for Elves, 
Dwarves, and Men are stirred into action, and those who 
dare to leave their homes find themselves often plagued by 
an ill-­fortune. Distant folks grow suspicious and estranged 
once again. The arm of the Enemy grows longer every day.
The possibility that a Company catches the Eye of the 
Enemy is expressed in gaming terms through the rules 
for Eye Awareness and its major and most terrible conse-
quence — the Hunt. 
	
♦Eye Awareness is a rating measuring the level of 
attention that the Enemy reserves for the Company 
of Player-­heroes. Its rating ebbs and flows based on 
their actions and wandering, and is kept track of from 
session to session. 
	
♦When the Eye Awareness of a Company reaches a 
certain limit, it triggers the Hunt, representing the 
way that the Enemy is able to focus the hostility of the 
world itself towards the group of Player-­heroes.
eye awareness
In general terms, the Eye Awareness rating of a Company 
is based on the composition of the group, which Heroic 
Cultures are represented in it, and the intensity of their 
adventuring activity. A larger and more active group of 
Player-­heroes, including Heroic Cultures recognised as ene-
mies of Sauron such as Rangers or Elves, has more chances 
to raise suspicions and stir the minions of the Shadow into 
action than a smaller group composed solely of Hobbits.
OPTIONAL RULES?
The rules concerning the Eye of Mordor are 
particularly suitable to be introduced later in 
the game, when the Company has already been 
playing for a few years of game time. This is 
because they add a layer of complexity that not 
every group may find to their liking, and also 
because they are meant to represent how the 
Enemy reacts to the deeds of a successful group 
of adventurers.

CHAPTER 8
170
To keep track of Eye Awareness it is best to use a num-
ber of counters or tokens (glass beads work fine) that 
should be placed on the gaming table, within reach of 
all players (about 20 tokens should suffice).
STARTING EYE AWARENESS SCORE
The starting Eye Awareness of a Company is calculated at the 
beginning of each Adventuring Phase. This value is deter-
mined by the composition of the group, as the Enemy keeps 
a closer watch on those individuals he hates, or fears, the most.
Check the table below to find out the individual score cor-
responding to each hero in the Company (Lore­master char-
acters journeying with the Company are not normally consid-
ered part of it for the purposes of calculating Eye Awareness).
	
♦To find the starting Eye Awareness of the Company, 
find its basic score using the table below (apply only 
the highest applicable entry), then add 1 for each 
Player-­hero with a rating of VALOUR at 4 or more.
	
♦Additionally, the spies of the Enemy can be attracted 
by adventurers carrying powerful weapons: add 1 for 
each Famous Weapon and Armour carried by mem-
bers of the Company.
THE COMPANY INCLUDES:
PLAYER-­HEROES
EYE AWARENESS
Only Hobbits or Men
0
One or more Dwarves
1
One or more Dúnedain or Elves
2
One or more High Elves
3
INCREASING EYE AWARENESS
A Company’s Eye Awareness score increases in the course of 
an Adventuring phase as a consequence of a number of cir-
cumstances, as detailed in the following paragraphs. 
The Lore­master must keep track of these instances, 
and update the Eye Awareness score of the company 
accordingly.
Note that most of the circumstances described here pertain 
to conditions happening outside of combat.
ROLLING EYES: When under the Shadow, even the most suc-
cessful exploits can be tainted by fear and self-­doubt.
Raise the Eye Awareness of the Company by 1 point 
whenever a die roll made by a player outside of com-
bat produces an 
 icon, regardless of whether the 
roll resulted in a success or a failure.
If the Lore­master considers it appropriate, rolling an 
 
under particularly dramatic or otherwise grave circumstances 
may increase the Eye Awareness by 2 points or more instead of 
1. Conversely, if the company is currently in a place deemed 
by the Lore­master to be safe, an 
 might not provoke an 
increase at all.
SHADOW GAIN: A Player-­hero tormented by grief and beset 
by the threat of corruption carries a burden that the Shadow 
is quick to recognise and exploit.
Whenever a Player-­hero gains 1 or more Shadow 
points outside of combat, increase the Eye Awareness 
level by an equal amount.
USING MAGIC: Blatant displays of magical power further aug-
ment a Company’s Eye Awareness score, in a measure that is 
proportional to the magical effect.
Spells cast by a Wizard or another Lore­master char-
acter capable of such feats provoke the increase of 
the Eye Awareness score by 1 point in case of a lesser 
effect, 2 points for a major spell, and 3 points for a 
really powerful spell.

THE LOREMASTER
171
Note that this does not apply to every use of magic — for 
example, tracing signs on a surface that will be visible only 
to friendly eyes, or embellishing pipe-­smoke or fireworks with 
shapes and colours does not provoke the increase of Eye 
Awareness — unless they are done in the wrong place, or at 
the wrong time, of course!
Examples of display of magical power include:
	
♦
LESSER EFFECTS (+1 POINT): Illuminate a dark passage 
with a short blaze of magical light, open a locked door, 
play tricks with voices or sounds.
	
♦
MAJOR SPELLS (+2 POINTS): Light a fire in a storm, 
block a door against a powerful adversary, make a tree 
burst into flames.
	
♦
POWERFUL SPELLS (+3 POINTS): Rain lightning down 
upon an advancing enemy, lend speed to a travelling 
company, make the waters of a river swell with rage.

CHAPTER 8
172
RESETTING EYE AWARENESS
When an Adventuring phase ends, the tally for Eye Aware-
ness is suspended for the length of the Fellow­ship phase. 
The Eye Awareness score of the Company is set again at 
its starting score at the beginning of the following Adven-
turing phase.
the hunt
Using the rules explained above, the Eye Awareness level of a 
Company grows session after session during the Adventuring 
phase as a consequence of the actions of the Player-­heroes. 
To determine whether this puts the Company at the risk of 
being noticed by the Enemy, the Lore­master must compare 
the Eye Awareness rating to another value, called the Com-
pany’s Hunt threshold.
HUNT THRESHOLD
At any given time, the Hunt threshold of the Company is 
determined by the region where the heroes are located, 
based on the Region table below. If the Player-­heroes travel 
from one region to another, the Hunt threshold will change 
accordingly.
A number of modifiers can alter the value set by the 
region, as the Company takes precautions or is travelling 
under the protection of a powerful individual (see the Hunt 
Modifiers table below). 
REGION TABLE:
THE REGION TRAVERSED IS A…
HUNT THRESHOLD
Border Land
18
Wild Land
16
Dark Land
14
HUNT MODIFIERS TABLE:
HUNT 
MODIFIER
DESCRIPTION
+4
The Company is protected by the blessing 
of a Wizard, or another powerful Lore­master 
character
+2
The Company is travelling under false 
names, treading paths that are seldom trod­
den, or otherwise taking actions to be dis­
creet and unobtrusive
−2
The Player-­heroes have gained great 
renown in the area thanks to some excep­
tional deed
−4
The Enemy is actively looking for the Player-­
heroes, or their mission or goal is known to 
them
The status of the Company as far as the perception of the 
Enemy is concerned is evaluated comparing the Hunt Thresh-
old to the Eye Awareness rating:
As long as the Eye Awareness rating of the Company 
is inferior to the Hunt threshold, the Player-­heroes 
are considered to be hidden.
In the eyes of the Enemy the adventurers are just a group 
of stray wanderers, and their actions are of small concern.
Should the Eye Awareness match or exceed the Hunt 
threshold, the group would be revealed to the Eye, and 
something bad will happen as a consequence.
REVEALING THE COMPANY
A Company is revealed to the Enemy when the Eye Awareness 
score of the company matches or exceeds the current Hunt 
threshold. When this happens, the Lore­master will intro-
duce a Revelation episode, a dangerous event reflecting the 
increased hostility of the game world towards the members 
of the Company.
The source of this hostility may differ wildly from one 
Revelation episode to another: it may be the result of the 
direct actions of servants of the Enemy aimed to thwart the 
Company’s plans, an accident caused by the ill-­will of another 
unfriendly power, or simply an unusual and sinister stroke 
of bad luck. There are many strange and dark powers in 
Middle-­earth, and not all of them are necessarily in league 
with the Dark Lord…
As soon as the Lore­master has played out a Revela-
tion episode, the Company is considered to be hidden 
again, and the Eye Awareness level of the company is 
set back at its starting level.
From that moment on, the tally for Eye Awareness is resumed 
normally; and thus may lead to another Revelation episode 
should the score reach the Hunt threshold once again, and 
so on, until the end of the Adventuring phase.

THE LOREMASTER
173
REVELATION EPISODES
To determine the precise nature and consequences of a Rev-
elation episode, the Lore­master should weigh the current 
circumstances of the Company and choose a course of events 
that will change the heroes’ predicament for the worst. If the 
Player-­heroes were already heading towards a difficult situa-
tion, now they will face one of their worst moments instead.
Regardless of the details, whatever happens to the Com-
pany must spring naturally out of the ongoing flow of events 
experienced during a session; no Orcs appearing out of 
nowhere to attack while the Player-­heroes are sleeping at 
Bag End!
Additionally, the nature of a Revelation episode should 
always suggest that there are strange forces at work; a 
distinctive aura that smells of something dark and foul; a 
malicious misfortune, the unusual behaviour of Men or beasts, 
the faint trace of sorcery.
Generally, the current situation should provide the Lore­
master with enough suggestions upon which to improvise. If 
this is not the case, then the resolution of a Revelation episode 
should be held off, until an appropriate situation appears 
(possibly even waiting for the following session of play).
A typical Revelation episode may include a hero losing 
the other companions during a journey or while fleeing, the 
group running out of food as provisions are found to be 
unexpectedly spoilt, a decision taken by heroes proving to 
be the worst possible choice, an individual the Company was 
waiting for failing to show up at a crucial moment, and so on.
EXAMPLES OF REVELATION EPISODES
"Is it the will of the Dark Tower that steers us? All my 
choices have proved ill."
Here follow several examples of how the Loremaster may 
worsen the situation of a revealed Company. A level of cus­
tomisation is required, to adapt all suggestions to the actual 
situation of play.
1.	 Out of the Frying Pan… All actions concerning the 
resolution of a chosen situation inexplicably prove 
harder — all Skill rolls lose (1d). For example, all rolls 
made for the length of a journey’s leg, or for the 
entire next encounter.
2.	 Láthspell. The arrival of the Company at a location is 
interpreted as ill-­news, and the heroes are given a 
colder welcome than expected: the goal of a Council 
as chosen by the Company is made more difficult — a 
reasonable request becomes bold, and a bold one 
becomes outrageous, as suspicions are roused and 
old prejudices flare up.
3.	 Do not tempt me! A Player-­hero gains 3 points of 
Shadow (Greed). The nature of the challenge may be 
overt or subtle, and should be based on the charac­
ter’s Shadow Path.
4.	 Lies and Threats. An ally becomes an enemy, through 
coercion, betrayal, or even sorcery. The individual is 
now bent on doing harm to the Player-­heroes, and 
either acts directly or schemes in the dark.
5.	 A Weariness of the Heart. An unnatural sense of tired­
ness has gotten hold of the Company. Whether it is 
due to some subtle sorcery or else it is not clear, but 
all Player-­heroes are considered Weary until the Lor­
emaster deems it appropriate to the circumstances.
6.	 A Will That Lends Speed. An enemy that the Com­
pany was chasing or holding prisoner escapes, as if 
helped or hidden by an unseen hand, or pursuers 
that were hunting the Company catch up with them 
unexpectedly.
7.	 Guided by Sinister Purpose. A potential threat the 
Company had a chance to avoid is now waiting for 
them. An Orc patrol they could try to ambush now 
automatically spots them; a Troll they could sneak 
past sniffs them out at the worst possible moment; an 
unnamed terror that was sleeping in the deep places 
of the world is now aware of their passage.
8.	 Reckless Hate. One enemy type that will be faced in 
combat next gains the special ability Hatred (subject), 
focused on one Heroic Culture represented in the 
Company.
9.	 Deadly Strife. An enemy that will be faced in combat 
next starts the fight with an additional pool of Hate or 
Resolve points equal to the roll of a Success die. The 
Loremaster spends one point from the pool when a 
creature would normally reduce its Hate or Resolve 
score.
10.	 We Come to Kill. One enemy type that will be faced in 
combat next gains:
FELL ABILITY: Deadly Wound. Wounded targets make 
an Ill-­favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity 
of their injury.


C H A P T E R  9
THE WORLD
… he kept in a drawer at Bag End the old cloak and hood  
that he had worn on his travels; and the ring,  
secured by a fine chain, remained in his pocket.

CHAPTER 9
176
his chapter contains background material 
describing the default setting for The One Ring 
Roleplaying Game — the region of Eriador as it 
was towards the end of the Third Age. It intro-
duces key locations, personalities and events, to be used 
mainly by the Lore­master to set up a great number of gam-
ing sessions that will be both entertaining and faithful to the 
source material.
The best way to use the information presented here is to 
adopt a starting location (for example, the town of Bree, or the 
Shire), and have the heroes explore Eriador from there.
As anticipated in the Introduction to this volume, the 
game is set ‘officially’ in the year 2965 of the Third Age — 
Bilbo Baggins’ great adventure was accomplished less than 
25 years before, and war is brewing in distant lands. There 
is again a Dark Lord in Mordor, and his chief lieutenants, 
the Ringwraiths, have reclaimed his fortress in the depths of 
Mirkwood, to the east. 
In the quiet west, in Eriador, not much is heard of this tur-
moil. Dwarves are encountered travelling on the great East Road 
to and from the Mountains in greater numbers, carrying strange 
and rich wares, a testimony of their newfound wealth and that of 
the Men of Dale; Elves wandering out of their own lands beyond 
the Tower Hills can sometimes be met wandering the woods in 
spring and autumn. 
But the long peace that seems to reign in the pleasant land 
of the Hobbits can be deceitful — there are dark things moving 
again in the world outside, and they are guided by an evil will. 
eriador
In the westlands of Eriador … the Hobbits found both Men and Elves. Indeed, a remnant still 
dwelt there of the Dúnedain, the kings of Men that came over the Sea out of Westernesse… 
Some say that ‘Eriador’ means “the lonely land” in the tongue 
of the Grey-­elves, and a more apt name is unlikely to be found. 
Though it was once the domain of ancient kings, as the ages 
passed and the world darkened, it became a mere shadow of 
its former self. Only ruins of crumbling white stone, forgot-
ten by Men, are left, the domain of terrible creatures who 
serve dark masters. 
Small pockets of civilization endure, settlements inhab-
ited by people more concerned with their own affairs than 
with any glories of the past, and who feel that what lies more 
than a few miles beyond their own front door is none of their 
business. But this lack of interest, or even awareness, makes 
what stalks the ruined realms of Eriador even more danger-
ous. If they only knew what lurks beyond their isolated set-
tlements, they would keep their doors locked at night and 
would not dare to stray too far beyond the borders of their 
towns and hamlets.
For all its danger, there is a melancholy and a beauty to 
even the most desolate and blasted parts of Eriador. Old songs 
are remembered, even if most ignore the origin of these lays, 
nor know their meanings. Perhaps those who wander the 
Lone-­lands will live to see a day when hope and prosperity 
will take root in this region once again. 
the shire
The Shire, the land of the Hobbits, is found at the heart of 
Eriador, bordered by the Brandywine River and the Old For-
est to the east, and by the hilly range of the Far Downs to 
the west. It is a peculiar land, sheltered from the wild regions 
surrounding it by watchful guardians, and inhabited by a folk 
that is almost never encountered anywhere else. For very few 
Hobbits ever leave their land to travel far. They prefer to keep 
to themselves, enjoying their green land and comfortable 

THE WORLD
177
traditions. Dwarven traders often pass through the Shire, but 
never stop for more than what is required to cross it.
The existence of Hobbits has been hitherto overlooked 
by most folks outside Eriador, and their involvement in the 
great events of the age has been so far of little or no conse-
quence — but there is still time for them to play a part that 
neither the Enemy nor the Wise have foreseen.
More detailed information on the Shire can be found in 
The One Ring Starter Set.
lake evendim
Nestled against the base of the Hills of Evendim is the great 
lake for which those rolling lands are named. Its white, sandy 
shores have seen many generations of Men and Dúnedain 
live and prosper, thanks to the trade that once sailed along 
the waters of the Brandywine river, from here to the distant 
sea. But that age has passed, and the buildings that once rose 
along the banks of the lake have been abandoned so long 
ago that often not even a memory remains. Today, countless 
broken stones have become little more than a refuge for wild 
beasts. Sometimes, they serve as lairs for even worse things, 
creatures that come down from the Lone-­lands to the north 
in search of prey.
NORTH-­WESTERN MIDDLE-­EARTH
The region where the Free Peoples and their foes 
dwell at the end of the Third Age is dominated 
by the great range of the Misty Mountains. To the 
west of its snow-­capped peaks lies Eriador, where 
once the North-­kingdom of the Men of the West 
rose. To the east lies wild Rhovanion, where the 
dark forest of Mirkwood lies. Beyond the forest 
to the northeast is the Long Lake and the Lonely 
Mountain, where a great Dragon used to rule. To 
the far south open the green plains of Rohan, bor-
dered by the White Mountains. Further east is the 
South-­kingdom of Gondor, the Realm of Stone, 
whose Tower of Guard faces the land of Mordor, 
where the shadows lie. 

CHAPTER 9
178
The waters of the lake are uncommonly still in sum-
mer, in spite of the wind sweeping down from the hills, as 
if those draughts were unwilling to disturb their peace. In 
winter, the surface often freezes solid for months, blan-
keting the entire lake in a white canopy. Fog rolls in from 
the east, settling across the waters and onto the shores in 
both late summer and winter, absorbing all sound. This 
mist rapidly burns off under the summer sun, but lingers 
to envelop everything it touches once the darker, colder 
seasons have taken hold.
Rumours persist that small islands lay unexplored in the 
middle of Lake Evendim, perhaps hiding forgotten treasures, 
heirlooms left behind when the great city of Annúminas was 
abandoned, more than two thousand years ago. Stories tell 
that the fog of the lake is summoned by some ancient magic, 
cast by the last High Men to keep these artefacts from falling 
into the hands of the Enemy. 
ANNÚMINAS 
The great city of Annúminas has lain in ruins for more than 
two thousand years. Once the capital of the North Kingdom 
of the Men of the West, it was abandoned when the Dúnedain 
moved their capital to the east, to Fornost Erain. The broken 
stonework of the ruined city cast its long shadows on the 
shores of Lake Evendim for many centuries, like the bones 
of an immense dead beast. About fifty years ago, the waters 
of Lake Evendim rose dramatically, as a consequence of 
the terrible floods following the Fell Winter, changing the 
shoreline and submerging much of what remained of the 
once glorious city. Now, not even brigands and tomb-­robbers 
visit Annúminas, for little of its ancient greatness is left to be 
remembered. 
The Rangers of the North sometimes come here, and 
they speak of the city of Annúminas in a voice that mingles 
both sorrow and hope. According to their songs and rhymes, 
here were once housed great works of art and magnificent 
artefacts that came from the lands beyond the sea. Though 
the greatest of these were lost to the tides of time or are now 
held in secret by the lords of the Free People, many believe 
that a great number of treasures remain hidden, waiting to be 
discovered by explorers doughty enough to brave the waters 
that now claim the ruins.
THE WESTERN TOWER: The rising of the waters of Lake 
Evendim have claimed much of what was left of Annúminas. 
Today, only the tallest and unbroken towers and walls emerge 
from the surface, and only about once a year, when the depth 
of the lake diminishes for a while in winter. But there’s one 
tower that is tall enough to rise above the surface all-­year 
round. Called the Western Tower by the Rangers of the 
North, it stood at the end of a pier, extending above the 
surface of the lake, looking west. Today, the pier is broken 
and submerged, and the tower can only be reached by boat, 
or by walking on the surface of the lake when it freezes solid, 
in the coldest winters. 
THE BRANDYWINE RIVER
The Baranduin river flows south out of Lake 
Evendim and across the North Moors before it 
descends south dividing the Eastfarthing of the 
Shire from Buckland and the Old Forest. Then, it 
flows in a southwesterly course, serving as the 
northern border of the wide region known as 
Minhiriath, south of the Shire. Finally, it empties 
into the sea near the woodland cape of Eryn Vorn. 
The Brandywine has two known crossings: The 
Brandywine Bridge, where the East Road leaves 
the Shire, and Sarn Ford, far to the south, which 
is seldom used.

THE WORLD
179
Some say that if one climbs the tower to look upon 
the shores of Lake Evendim on starry, moonless nights, 
they can hear a song drifting over its still waters, a dirge 
both mournful and beautiful. Then, strange, ghostly 
ships with high sails appear at the edge of vision, draw-
ing ever closer to the tower, but never reach-
ing it. Then, they fade and vanish on the mist-­
swept surface of Lake Evendim.
THE HILLS OF EVENDIM
The Hills of Evendim give the nearby lake its 
Sindarin name — Nenuial, “the Lake of Twilight”. 
This is maybe because the shadows of the 
hills lengthen over its waters, making them 
look dull and flat, except on starry nights, 
when the surface reflects the beautiful sky above. 
Once, the hills were the home of a folk 
that built upon their slopes even before 
the Men of the West settled there, and 
many stones still bear their markings. These 
days, they have become a wild and dangerous 
place, threatened by wandering Trolls and other 
monsters. They come down from their lairs in 
the northern Lone-­lands, to prowl along the 
shores of the lake in hopes of catching a way-
ward traveller or foolish treasure hunter. They 
make sport of anyone unlucky enough to fall 
under their gaze, and there are even rumours that 
a few of their strange kind sometimes slip into the 
south along the Shire’s North Moors.
THE FORGOTTEN HAMLET
Eskerdale is an isolated village of Men, hidden in a deep 
valley on the northeastern slopes of the Hills of Evendim. 
Wanting little to do with other denizens of Eriador or the 
Shire to the south, its inhabitants make their homes in small 
stone houses by a swift running stream, and survive by 
hunting among the hills and fishing from the waters of the 
Lake. They are not accounted among the Rangers of the 
North, but they sometimes have dealings with them. More 
than twenty years ago, a chieftain by the name of Oswin 
rose to prominence in Eskerdale. A young and energetic 
man at the time, he resented the interference of the Rang-
ers in the life of his community. As a result, the village grew 
more and more withdrawn, and its already small population 
began to dwindle. 
In recent times, the few Rangers that are still welcome 
in Eskerdale have noticed a sullen look on the faces of the 
locals, and it is feared that they may have fallen prey to 
some curse, or that their isolation has finally broken their 
spirit. 
Finding Eskerdale is not easy, even for those who are 
told of its existence or receive hints of its location. Finding it 
is a Skill Endeavour with a Resistance of 6, using the EXPLORE, 
HUNTING, RIDDLE, and SCAN skills. Those who find the hidden 
community need to demonstrate that they are not a threat, 
for example with a COURTESY roll, though Rangers lose (1d) 
on this roll. Consulting with the people of Eskerdale allows 
a hero to gain (1d) on the next EXPLORE, HUNTING, or LORE 
roll associated with the region of Evendim.

CHAPTER 9
180
Beinion and Arin of Evendim 
Unlike most Rangers of the North, Arin and Beinion do not 
often wander across Eriador. Instead, they remain close to 
Lake Evendim and its surroundings, where they maintain a 
close watch. A wife and her husband, their self-­appointed 
tasks include warding off all evil creatures threatening to 
defile the ruins of Annúminas, and guiding wayward travel-
lers back to safer lands. Beinion is a grim and short-­spoken 
man, and Arin is equally silent, unless she’s singing — when 
she does, her voice is clear and can be mistaken for that of 
a fair Elf-­maiden. The two see themselves as the appointed 
keepers of these lands, and they feel honour-­bound by 
this duty.
Arin and Beinion live together in a small stone house that 
was once little more than a hovel on the edge of Annúminas. 
Over time, they have made this ruin into a warm and cozy 
home, in spite of all the desolation around them. Recently, 
Beinion has grown concerned with his wife’s well-being, 
as she is now with child, making her life as a Ranger an 
even more dangerous business. Beinion secretly wishes Arin 
would agree to abandon their obligation as guardians, and 
retire to live the simple life of the Bree-­folk. For the moment, 
she refuses to be left home. Maybe, they might agree to 
leave their post if someone took their place.
NAME: Beinion and Arin of Evendim
OCCUPATION: Rangers
TRAITS: Bold, Faithful, Fair-­spoken (Arin), True-­hearted 
(Beinion)
the bree-­land
If any credit is to be given to the tales recounted in Bree, 
there has always been a settlement here, on the Road, since 
the Elder Days. What is sure is that the simple Bree-­folk — 
a colourful community of Men and Hobbits, have endured 
the fall of kingdoms, fell winters, and terrible invasions from 
Orcs and Evil Men from the north. 
Today, the Bree-­folk, Big and Little, look out from behind 
their hedge wall and its great encircling ditch to see a land-
scape of rolling fields and stone-­capped hills that are riddled 
with traces of a past time of glory. But they are not deceived 
— they know that there are ancient riddles that are best left 
to others to answer, and instead, they focus their efforts on 
the responsibilities of daily life.
BREE
Bree is the chief village of the Bree-­land. Some call it a town, 
especially when comparing it to its lesser cousins, the hamlets 
of Archet, Staddle, and Combe. Travellers who approach Bree 
journeying upon the great East Road see plumes of chimney-­
smoke first, and then a thick green hedge, flanked by a deep 
dike. The road coming from the west crosses over the dike 
on a causeway, leading to a break in that thorny row of lush 
greenery, where a heavy gate of wood and iron stands. Another, 
similar gate pierces the hedge to the south, where the road 
leaves the village on its way east.
The gates of Bree are a welcome sight to most travellers, 
and sit open every day from dawn until dusk, regardless of the 
season or the weather. Each gate is guarded by a gatekeeper at 
all times, less of a watchman and more of an observer of the 
comings and goings of those who enter the town upon the 
hill. Most visitors are given a courteous welcome, unless the 
hour is late — after nightfall, it is the duty of the gatekeepers 
to ask questions of those who wish to pass the gates when they 
are closed.
A smaller gate can be found opening near the end of the 
northern arm of the great hedge, where it turns eastward 
towards the hill once again. It is seldom used, if ever, as it is 
crossed by a path leading to the Greenway, the North Road 
used only by Rangers and other wanderers of ill-­repute. 
Most Bree-­folk, whether Big or Little, work as crafters or 
laborers, and build their simple homes using wood harvested 
from the Chetwood and stone mined from the quarry. The 
Bree-folk also collect stones from old ruins, at least enough to 
keep the town in repair.
The Big Folk live mainly in stone houses built on the lower 
hillside, mostly above the road, their windows looking west. The 
Little Folk dwell in the higher slopes of the hill instead, the 
part of Bree the Big Folk still refer to as the ‘new town’, despite 
it being probably more than a thousand years old. But these 
differences aside, the people of Bree get along in a remarkably 
peaceable way, and are surprisingly welcoming to visitors, being 
ever curious about tales from beyond the gates of their town. 
A Reeve holds a nominal position of leadership over the 
community, but they are rarely called upon to settle disputes, 
THE TWILIGHT SHIPS
Player-­heroes who partake in the vision of the ghost 
ships sailing on Lake Evendim may react differently:
Player-­heroes who are Miserable must exchange 
a point of Shadow for a Shadow Scar. Those who are 
not Miserable regain 1 point of Hope instead.

THE WORLD
181
as most folk are able to keep any disagreements 
civil and private. Equally underutilised, but pres-
ent, are the Bree-­wardens, men and women 
ostensibly tasked with keeping the peace 
and maintaining law and order. In practice, 
their duties consist primarily of idly wan-
dering the streets to engage in pleasant-
ries or gossip along with the occasional 
request to manage the large crowds that 
gather upon the Green on market day.
THE PRANCING PONY: The great East 
Road cuts through the heart of Bree, and 
at the centre of the town stands the inn of 
The Prancing Pony. Known locally just as 
The Pony, it has stood for as long as anyone 
in Bree can recall. Rising above the cobble-
stones of the East Road and looking out upon 
the Green, it is always a welcome sight to both locals 
and weary travellers. Though its most common patrons 
are Bree locals, it sees its fair share of Dwarven travellers 
moving between Dale, the Lonely Mountain and the Iron Hills 
in the east and the Blue Mountains in the west, or the occasional 
Hobbit of the Shire. The proprietor even claims his grandfather 
once hosted an Elf that was travelling west to the Great Sea.
On any given night, The Prancing Pony is filled with the 
sound of raucous laughter and the scent of fine food and fresh 
beer — all of it under a cloud of aromatic pipe smoke. Even 
during the day, a few patrons can be found either enjoying a 
brief reprieve from their daily work or exchanging idle gossip. 
Day or night, regardless of the season, a crackling fire is set in 
the hearth and a soothing golden glow can be seen in its frosted 
windows. All who step under the lamp and signboard (showing 
a fat, white pony rearing up and ‘The Prancing Pony’ in white 
letters) and enter The Pony are welcome, by order of the inn-
keeper, Barnabas Butterbur. Even the ill-­favored Rangers are 
given a table when they patronise his establishment, though 
always one in the back and away from the regular customers.
Those looking for lodging will find simple, comfortable 
rooms with warm feather beds. Barnabas even makes sure 
to keep a few smaller rooms on the ground floor of the inn 
to ensure the comfort of his Hobbit patrons. Though not as 
grand as an Elf hall or as cozy as a Hobbit smial, travellers will 
be hard pressed to find better accommodations west of the 
Last Bridge. Guests can even pay a few extra silver pennies for 
a hot bath to wash away the dirt of the road, and are assured 
the comfort of their loyal mounts, who are well-­stabled in The 
Pony’s sheltered courtyard. Simple but hearty food fills the 
belly of all who visit, and partners perfectly with Barnabas’s 
Best, an ale brewed on site and served fresh.
THE BIG AND THE LITTLE
There are many families of Hobbits spread among 
the villages of the Bree-­land, especially in Staddle. 
These Bree-­hobbits are of course closely related to 
their neighbours in the Shire — indeed, to most Big 
Folk, it is impossible to tell the difference (unless one 
makes the mistake of asking one of the Hobbits, in 
which case get comfortable — you are in for a long talk 
about family trees, obscure legal issues, and exceed-
ingly minute cultural differences). 
If you desire to create a Bree-­hobbit, use all the 
rules concerning the Men of Bree found on page 40, 
with the following exceptions:
Bree-­hobbits calculate their Endurance, Hope 
and Parry ratings using the Hobbits’ tables (on 
page 38);
They are limited to use of the same weapons as 
Hobbits (see Halflings, page 38);
They must pick their Cultural Virtues from the 
following list: Bree-­pony, Desperate Courage, Small 
Folk, Strange as News from Bree, The Art of Smoking, 
Tough as Old Tree Roots.
Bree-­hobbits share many family names with the 
local Big Folk (Mugworts, for example), but most have 
Shire-­sounding names, such as Banks, Brockhouse, 
Longhole, Sandheaver, Tunnelly, and Underhill.

CHAPTER 9
182
AN EVENING AT THE PRANCING PONY
Rarely is there a quiet night at The Pony. When the Player-­heroes spend an evening at the inn, the Lore­master can roll on the 
following table to determine who or what they encounter while sampling a bit of ale and taking a break from the troubles 
of the road. 
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
The Grey Pilgrim
Gandalf himself is visiting The Pony this evening and his presence alone has the 
whole house astir! Perhaps he is on a secret errand of his own, or searching for the 
Player-­heroes to gain their aid against some hidden threat.
1
Ill-­favoured Ranger
One of the Rangers of the North is quietly minding their own business in a corner 
of the inn’s common room. Several locals are leering or making cross remarks, but 
no one knows why they are here.
2
Visitors from Buckland
A small company of Hobbits from Buckland is spending an evening at The Pony, 
meeting with distant cousins, and hoping to trade for some of the local crop of 
pipe-­weed.
3
Dwarf Travellers
Dwarves, travelling to the land of their kin along the great East-­West Road are sam-
pling some of Barnabas’s Best, and have raised a raucous song this evening.
4
Greenway Refugees
A small family of homesteaders who once lived along the Greenway have come to 
The Pony in search of refuge. They are cautious, but anyone who asks politely can 
learn from them that their farm was burnt and sacked last night.
5
Fitch Talltree
The Forester of Archet has come to The Pony this evening looking for stout warriors 
to join him in a hunt for a new threat prowling the Chetwood. He is having little 
luck in his efforts.
6
Impending Brawl
John Ferny is having a pint in the common room and several other patrons are cross 
with him. They are engaged in a loud argument and it seems like things are about 
to come to blows. 
7
Rousing Ballad
The common room is filled with patrons roaring out bolstering ballads of heroes 
and hearthfires! Characters who join in and make a successful SONG roll recover 1 
Hope.
8
Showing Some Coin
A wealthy merchant is passing through Bree and has bought a round of drinks for 
everyone in attendance this evening. Unfortunately, some less than savoury drink-
ers seem to have a keen eye on his money purse.
9
Ponies Loose at The 
Pony!
The Pony’s ostler comes running into the common room, yelling that the horses 
have gotten loose from the inn’s stables! Was this an accident or an attempted 
theft?
10
Bragging Treasure 
Hunters
A group of glorified tomb robbers have come to spend ill-­gotten riches they claim 
to have retrieved from a tomb in the Barrow-­downs. The coins are ancient and 
marked in a strange script.
Skulking Southerner
A sallow-­faced southerner is lingering about the shadows of the common room, 
asking rude questions and bullying locals for the latest news in Bree-­land.

THE WORLD
183
Barnabas Butterbur
For the proprietor of The Prancing Pony, running a clean 
and welcome house is a matter of family pride. Barnabas 
dedicates himself to keeping his establishment in order, 
taking only the briefest of reprieves in his quarters on 
The Pony’s top floor. While some locals see him as absent 
minded or even befuddled, the truth is that Barnabas is 
both keen and perceptive. He also possesses the uncom-
mon wisdom of knowing when to remain silent as well as 
being a sharp judge of character. To most of the people 
who visit The Pony regularly he is known as an affable host 
and a fine brewer of ales.
NAME: Barnabas Butterbur
OCCUPATION: Innkeeper
TRAITS: Patient, Rustic

CHAPTER 9
184
EAST ROW: The last side street branching out of the main 
road going towards the south gate is called the East Row. 
Its houses make up what is probably the youngest district 
in the town of Bree, even if it may seem to outsiders to be 
the most ancient. Until recent decades, it was little more 
than grazing lands for caravan horses, but when refugees 
came north out of Tharbad, they settled the open fields 
as their own land with the blessing of the Reeve of Bree. 
Bringing with them the grim determination of those who 
grew up in the farthest corners of Eriador, these refugees 
taught their children to survive and endure with little aid 
from others. This has led to East Row being a bit more insu-
lar and less welcoming than the neighbourhoods of other 
Bree-­folk, who have called the town home for hundreds of 
years. As a further reflection of their unwillingness to aban-
don their roots, the people of East Row brought with them 
some of the very stones of their abandoned city to serve 
as the foundation of their new domain. Statues of ancient 
kings, though worn and cracked, stand next to traditional 
Bree homesteads, and icons of seafaring people mingle with 
the more rustic local imagery. 
John Ferny
One of the less hospitable-­looking houses in East Row 
belongs to the sallow-­faced and cross-­tempered horse 
trader and ostler, John Ferny. In previous generations, 
the Ferny family name was associated with the trade 
of some of the finest horses in Eriador — today, it has 
become synonymous with deception. The quality steeds 
and workhorses traded by his father and grandfather 
have given way to wretched and ill-­treated nags that he 
sells at inflated prices. The good will of his family name 
has withered to worthlessness, and to maintain profits, 
John has even taken to trading with foreign folk. More 
than once, locals have seen him taking silver pennies 
from foreigners and southerners, and John has little 
more than snide remarks for any who question his busi-
ness practices. The only matter upon which the towns-
folk seem to agree with the foul ostler is his constant 
suspicion of the Rangers whenever they make their way 
into Bree. 
NAME: John Ferny
OCCUPATION: Horse-­trader, Ostler
TRAITS: Canny, Secretive
THE GREEN: The heart of Bree, the Green is a wide grassy 
field at the centre of the town on the western side of the 
East Road, across from The Prancing Pony. This lush lawn 
is framed on one side by the administrative buildings of 
Bree: The Counting-­house, the Armoury, and the Reeve’s 
Hall. Except for on market days, the Green acts as little 
more than a playing field for local children. Here, they 
can often be found playing blind man’s buff, wrestling, 
or play-­acting at being knights of old. 
During festivals and on market days, the Green is filled 
with tents, stalls, and carts, as Bree-­land traders sell their 
goods alongside rare visitors from the tiny communities 
of southern Eriador, and even the occasional Dwarf from 
the Blue Mountains. As much a social gathering as an 
event for commerce, it is not uncommon to see barrels 
of Barnabas’s Best setup beside long wooden tables, to 
help keep the thirst of the day at bay. Bree-­wardens serve 
to keep the peace during these gatherings, though they 
rarely have to do more than settle a contentious nego-
tiation or prevent a drunken brawl started by a reveler 
who’s had one too many.
The day-­to-­day administration of Bree is carried out 
from the Reeve’s House, which serves as both the town 
court-­house and home to its senior official. The cur-
rent Reeve is Cole Pickthorn, who, prior to his election, 
served for over a decade under the previous Reeve and 
has adopted many of his principles and policies. The 
Wardens’ Armoury, more commonly known as simply the 
Armoury, is a squat stone building that is officially the 
headquarters of the Bree-­wardens, but is little more than 
a storehouse for rarely used spears, shields, and helms, 
kept ready should the town ever face a threat from the 
wilds outside.
Larger than either of these buildings is the Counting-­
house. In ancient days, it was manned by a representative 
of the King, who collected taxes in his name and saw to 
the proper allocation of funds to the town. Sitting upon 
stone pillars and rising as tall as even The Prancing Pony, 
its size hints at its noble past. Now it serves as little more 
than a drafty hall for brief and inconsequential meetings 
of members of the town council, who are concerned with 
little more than small town politics and ensuring their 
own re-­election.
LOWER HILLSIDE: The lower slopes of Bree-­hill are dotted 
with stone houses, the living quarters of many of Bree’s crafts-
men. Blacksmiths, tailors, leatherworkers, and many other 
skilled tradesmen practice their crafts on the ground floor 
of their homes, while living on the first or even second storey. 
It is a tradition among many of the local residents to work in 

THE WORLD
185
tandem alongside families of Hobbits that typically live and 
work in the basements of the Big Folk’s stone homes. For 
example, one farmer by the name of John Andrews keeps 
a crop of Southern Star growing on his hillside land, but 
rents out space below his home to a small Hobbit family who 
aids in the curing and preparing of the leaf for sale. Hob-
bits living under this arrangement are sometimes known as 
Cellar-­hobbits.
As proud as they are skilled, the craftsmen of the lower 
hillside come from long family lines that set down roots 
during the days of the king. Because of this, they often regard 
outsiders or even other Bree-­folk as less cultured or somehow 
beneath their concern. It is indeed a fact that their homes 
are among the first ones to have ever been built in Bree. 
This noble lineage authorises the local residents to call it 
the ‘old town’, in contrast to the houses built on the upper 
hillside — the area they call the ‘new town’ with a good hint 
of superciliousness. 
At the southern end of this ‘old town’ is the ancient quarry 
of Bree, clearly visible as a deep cut into the hillside, the 
result of centuries of excavations. But the most important 
landmark in the lower hillside is the Old Town Well. A source 
of pride to all the Bree-­folk, the Well is said to grant luck to 
any traveller who takes a drink from it before heading off 
on a journey down the East Road. Given that it’s the source 
for the water used to brew Barnabas’s Best, perhaps it’s true 
that there’s always a taste of home on the lips of those trav-
ellers who partake of this tradition. Many Bree-­folk looking 
for a bit of adventure often gather around the Old Town 
Well after Market Day is over, hoping to sign on with a cara-
van of Dwarven merchants either travelling west to the Blue 
Mountains or, in rare cases, far east to Dale and the Halls of 
the Lonely Mountain. 
So welcome are the Dwarves that bring their trade to 
Bree, that the lower hillside is home to another remarkable 
establishment: The Dwarf-­House. Overlooking the Well and 
purchased long ago by a Dwarf from the Blue Mountains, it 
is now a temporary home for any Dwarf merchants during 
their visits to Bree. The only permanent resident is Luki, the 
grey-­bearded steward, whose bawdy songs can be heard ring-
ing through the area whenever he hosts young visitors and 
distant kinsmen.
UPPER HILLSIDE: Compared to the lower hillside, this part 
of Bree is generally less affluent, and its homes more hum-
ble. It is an area inhabited mostly by Bree-­hobbits, who 
favour low, one-­story houses, fronted by colourful, fenced 
gardens. The exception to this rule is a large wooden build-
ing, the Schoolhouse. A recent establishment, it is open to 
all residents of Bree, whether Big or Little, and regardless 
of income. Its costs are covered by taxes taken from locals 
and tariffs levied on traders — though neither of these is 
extreme. Because of the existence of the school, nearly 
all of the Bree-­folk are capable of doing simple sums and 
know their letters. Little beyond these basics is provided, 
and scholarly pursuits are not common nor particularly 
encouraged. Even so, it is not uncommon for families from 
Combe, Staddle, and even Archet to pay an upper hill-
side family to house their child for a time so that they can 
receive a “proper education.”
The upper hillside is also home to the town’s largest 
smithy, which is a squat stone building high on the Hill. 
Few weapons are crafted here. Instead, the local smith is 
kept busy with crafting horseshoes, nails, and other day-­
to-­day implements. 
COMBE
Tucked between the valley of Bree-­hill to the south and the 
eaves of the Chetwood to the north, the village of Combe 
seems to sit in the shadow of both the land and its larger, 
livelier and more famous neighbour. Combe is only sec-
ond in size among the area’s settlements, and is populated 
primarily by Men, with a handful of Hobbit families. Its 
inhabitants are dour and gloomy farmers, happy to have to 
deal with visitors only rarely. The few who come to Combe 
find themselves greeted by the sounds of bleating sheep or 
barking hounds, before receiving suspicious stares and half-­
hearted welcomes from the locals.
This sullenness is not without cause. Living between 
Bree-­hill and the Chetwood means that heavy spring rains 
or melting snows can lead to sudden floods which destroy 
homes and crops at least once a decade, though none was 
so devastating as the great flood that came in the spring fol-
lowing the Fell Winter. As if that were not trouble enough, 
unlike the vigilant and well-­armed people of Archet, Combe 
locals have little protection should a Troll choose to come 
TOSS A COIN IN THE WELL
Whether because of tradition, superstition, or 
some ancient enchantment, there is a strange luck 
associated with the Old Town Well. Player-­heroes 
tossing a coin into the well on the same day that 
they depart for a journey from Bree gain (1d) on 
their first roll for Event Resolution made during 
that journey.

CHAPTER 9
186
down from the Weather Hills, cross the Chetwood, and 
make mutton of their grazing sheep — something which 
has happened in past generations and remains a source of 
constant concern.
Oswald Breeker
The most well-­known resident of Combe is one Oswald 
Breeker, a wizened old man who lives alone in his ancient 
family estate on the edge of the village. He is the master 
of much of the farm and grazing lands of Combe, and 
extracts a heavy tax from those who tend these fields and 
hills. A widower who lost his only child over twenty years 
ago, he offers the people of Combe little more than cross 
words and demands for prompt payment. Rumours say 
that his wife, in despair at the cold heart of her husband, 
disappeared in the ruins of an ancient mansion that is vis-
ible at the end of the valley of Combe. No locals dare to 
visit these ancient and broken stones, as many have said 
to have seen a spectre haunting the grounds when the 
moon is new and the sky is black.
In truth, while quite cantankerous, Oswald Breeker is 
no villain. He is a hard man and pushes the people under 
his charge to be equally hard, so they might endure the 
dangers that lurk so close to the edges of Combe. He 
is well-­versed in old lore, maintaining a vast library of 
ancient books and tomes in his estate. In secret, he meets 
with Rangers of the North, who patrol the land around 
the ruined High House of Combe, trading news and pro-
viding aid where he can. 
Should the Player-­heroes prove themselves to be both 
allies of the Free Folk and capable of keeping his secrets, 
they might find a benefactor in Oswald, who may permit 
regular use of his library for research. 
Any Ranger of the North or other character able to win 
over Oswald is able to make use of his collection of ancient 
texts, and gains (1d) to Lore rolls relating to the history of 
Bree-­land and Arnor. 
NAME: Oswald Breeker
OCCUPATION: Wealthy landowner
TRAITS: Grim, Inquisitive, Secretive
STADDLE
The village of Staddle is barely a stone’s throw from Bree 
proper, just on the other side of the Hill. In fact, many 
Bree-­folk consider it more a suburb of Bree — much to the 
consternation of the many Hobbits of the Tunnelly family that 
call Staddle their home. As populated by Hobbits as it is by 
Men, nearly two dozen stone homes serve as the residences 
of the Big Folk who dwell there. 
The majority of the Hobbits in Staddle are not only 
related to the Tunnelly family line, but also make their 
home in smials dug into the eastern side of Bree-­hill. These 
underground homes are all interconnected by a series of 
tunnels that go deep into the ground, allowing kinfolk 
and cousins to visit one another without ever going above 
ground. This great network of smials is known locally sim-
ply as “the Smial”.
Most folk in Staddle, whether Big or Little, are quite wel-
coming to visitors coming from Bree, or who slip off the great 
East Road to quench their thirst at the Lamplighter Inn. The 
Lamplighter itself is cozy and warm, built more to suit the 
Hobbit residents of Staddle than local Men or far off visitors. 
It serves the finest fare outside of The Prancing Pony, per-
sonally prepared by the proprietor, Karla Tunnelly. Visiting 
guests looking for a room for the evening will find warm, if 
a bit small, beds, and a good night’s rest that ends with a 
GOBLIN RAIDS
Word of a Troll raiding the livestock of Combe has 
begun to circulate, after years of peace. This time, 
it is not simply the disappearance of a wayward 
ewe or sow. No livestock has been stolen. Instead, 
they are found savagely butchered, with hunks of 
their bodies carted away while the remnants are 
left on the side of Bree-­hill to rot. The people of 
Combe haven't asked for assistance, but rumours 
of this have reached as far as Bree. 
An official intervention on part of the Bree-­
wardens has been dismissed, and the people 
of Combe have demonstrated to be unwilling 
to cooperate, regardless of the obvious danger. 
Maybe the Player-­heroes can convince the locals 
to let them inquire on the matter?
After scouting the grazing fields on the first 
night of their visit, the Player-­heroes discover 
signs of an unsuspected culprit: a band of Goblins! 
Tracking them to an abandoned Troll-­hole hidden 
in the side of one of the hills to the north, the 
Player-­heroes must drive them out before news 
of their success draws more Goblins down from 
the Weather Hills to raid the village itself. 

THE WORLD
187
robust morning breakfast of fresh eggs from local chickens 
and rashers of crispy bacon.
Anyone who does make trouble in Staddle is likely to 
face the wrath of the town matriarch, Grandmother Tunnelly. 
She seems to know every whisper and rumour that passes 
through Staddle, and according to legend, she even stared 
down a company of brigands caught attempting to raid the 
village one night several winters ago, fending them off with 
nothing more than her umbrella. Her duties are nominal at 
best, with her only regular obligation being presiding over 
the Summer Smoke Ring Festival. Instead, it is her reputa-
tion and the general respect of the townsfolk, both Men and 
Hobbits, that keeps the peace in Staddle.
Adelard Took
A young, vigorous Hobbit, Adelard loves blowing smoke 
rings above everything else. He was inspired by Balin, son 
of Fundin, who Adelard met several times at Bag End. Balin 
taught him a smoking trick or two (Dwarves are in general 
less experienced smokers than Hobbits, but show some 
great ingenuity when it comes to blowing smoke rings). 
His prize-­winning trick is a large mushroom-­shaped cloud 
he dubbed ‘the umbrella’.
NAME: Adelard Took
OCCUPATION: Champion Smoker
TRAITS: Bold, Honourable
ARCHET
Hidden under the southern boughs of the Chetwood, Archet 
lies all but invisible beneath the eaves of the forest. Fewer than 
twenty cabins make up what can barely be called a proper 
village, and the locals greet outsiders with grim glances and 
sharp words. In an effort to keep outsiders from surprising 
them in their concealed hollow, and to keep a wary eye on 
lingering dangers that might come out of the Chetwood, a 
number of locals have taken to living in tiny huts among the 
tree-­tops. Even the scant few Hobbits that make their home 
in Archet have adapted the ways of their people to the local 
woodcraft traditions, and they dig strange Hobbit-­holes under 
the roots of particularly large and ancient trees. 
When occasional visitors come to Archet, they spend their 
brief stay at the Green Fletcher Inn, enjoying its warm, rustic 
charm and fine stout. Foreigners come here almost exclu-
sively to trade goods or services for one of Archet’s finely 
crafted hunting bows. It is said in Bree-­land that the skill of 
the bowyers of Archet rivals that of the Elves — a claim that 
is, of course, absurd, but certainly there is something extraor-
dinary about them. But Archet locals are loath to trade their 
wares, even to other Bree-­folk, and demand a high price for 
even the least of their creations.
Archet has no mayor, and is instead led by a Forester, 
who serves more as a chieftain and protector of the village 
than as an administrator. The current Forester is Fitch 
Talltree, who took up the mantle after his father was slain by 
a Troll while the two were on a hunting expedition between 
the Chetwood and the Weather Hills. Like his father before 
him, Fitch is grim and proud. He leads his people with a 
firm but fair hand.
Unknown to all but the locals, there is a small stone fort 
atop a hillock between the East Road and the eaves of the 
Chetwood, where the villagers can watch in secret the comings 
and goings of travellers on the road. To the casual observer, 
this fort appears to be nothing more than a ruin from ancient 
THE SUMMER SMOKE RING FESTIVAL
Every year on Midsummer’s Eve, Men and Hobbits 
from the many villages around Bree-­hill gather for 
the annual Summer Smoke Ring Festival. This cel-
ebration of the Hobbit art of pipe smoking finds 
competitors trying to blow ever-­greater and more 
elaborate smoke rings, rings-­within-­rings, and 
even silhouettes of birds and beasts in wispy blue 
clouds. For the past several years, the winner of 
the Summer Smoke Ring Festival has been Adelard 
Took, a Hobbit whose skill in the art of his people 
is said to rival even that of Gandalf the Grey.
Player-­heroes can participate in the Festival 
if they so choose. The contest is a Skill Endeavour 
using either CRAFT, COURTESY, or RIDDLE, with a 
Resistance of 3. Participants are given enough time, 
so each player has 4 attempts. 
Failing one roll represents a lack of imagi-
nation or skill and allows the player to continue. 
A second failure with the 
 is a coughing fit, 
knocking the hero out of the competition. If a 
Player-­hero succeeds at the endeavour, Adelard 
surrenders an elegantly crafted pipe inlaid with 
silver accents and a pearl stem to the hero. The 
pipe is worth 1 point of Treasure.

CHAPTER 9
188
days, but the Forester of Archet requires that at least one 
watchman be kept there at all times. Through some secret 
path known only to the locals, that sentry is able to alert the 
people of Archet long before outsiders arrive.
Fitch Talltree, the Forester of Archet
Fitch is not quite thirty, though his wild beard and fierce 
eyes make him appear older. Like his father before him, he 
holds the protection of Archet and its people as a sacred 
duty, and would gladly lay down his life to protect anyone 
in the tiny community. He blames himself for the untimely 
death of his father nearly ten years ago, when the two 
were hunting a brutal Troll from the Weather Hills that his 
father had nearly bested in combat previously. Not only 
was Fitch unable to aid his father in defeating the Troll, but 
the elder Talltree died saving his son from a particularly 
grievous blow from the Troll’s massive stone club. To this 
day, Fitch seeks to alleviate his guilt over the death of his 
father, but fears facing the Troll alone. He is torn between 
this personal quest to avenge his father, and carrying out 
his promise to protect the people of Archet.
Player-­heroes who have proven themselves through 
previous adventures or have come requesting an Archet 
Bow, are asked by Forester Talltree to join him in his hunt 
for the Troll that slew his father. 
They must brave the natural hazards of the Chetwood 
as they move north into the Weather Hills. The Troll, know-
ing that Fitch has been seeking vengeance, has laid a trap 
and ambushes the party as they wander the region. Even-
tually the party tracks the Troll to a dark and crumbled ruin 
in the Weather Hills, where the creature is able to hide 
from the sunlight — but Fitch is consumed by his lust for 
revenge and the Player-­heroes must find a way to defeat 
the brute as the Forester charges headlong into battle — 
and likely his death.
NAME: Fitch Talltree
OCCUPATION: Forester
TRAITS: Keen-­eyed, Rustic, Tall
THE CHETWOOD
The residents of Bree and the surrounding villages regard the 
Chetwood as a delightful forest to look upon from atop the 
hill, or even stroll under its eaves during long summer sun-
sets. But this wide patch of woodland stretches much farther 
to the north from the slopes of Bree-­hill, and is a wild place. 
Expanding to meet the Midgewater Marshes on its eastern 
edge and the Weather Hills in the north eastern corner, at its 
heart it is far more diverse and mysterious than most sensible 
folk are willing to discuss. Only the people of Archet know 
that the Chetwood can be a truly dangerous place.
Wisely, few venture into the heart of the forest, where the 
trees seem as old as time. Large and gnarled, with twisting 
roots and clawing branches, they can turn any pleasant walk 
into a perilous journey, especially after sunset. Even during 
the day, its thick green canopy can block out the summer 
sun, forcing a lost wanderer to find their way by thin beams 
of light broken by long shadows. Here, only birds and beasts 
are welcome.
ARCHET HUNTING BOWS
Purchasing a famed Archet Bow is not a matter of simply 
paying the right price. Player-­heroes wishing to acquire 
a bow will need to both prove themselves worthy and 
perform some great deed of service to the people of 
Archet. For example, a Player-­hero may address some 
danger in the Chetwood or the Weather Hills, protect-
ing a group of woodsmen who have encountered some 
trouble while felling trees in the forest, or anything else 
the Lore­master deems appropriate to their campaign. 
Once a Player-­hero has proven worthy, they must 
then demonstrate that they are a skilled archer by spend-
ing three days on a solitary hunt in the Chetwood, and 
returning with a buck of no less than ten points (a Skill 
Endeavour (HUNTING) with a Resistance of 6; the player 
hero can make two rolls each day, and has three days to 
complete the task).
After completing this, the hero may spend any 
Fellow­ship Phase at Archet to gain an Archet Hunting 
Bow as their next Reward, or to replace one of their 
Rewards with an Archet Hunting Bow.
When making a ranged attack or a HUNTING roll 
using an Archet Hunting Bow, the wielder adds either 
a +3 bonus to their roll, or their VALOUR rating — which-
ever is higher.

THE WORLD
189
In recent years, news of Orcs, wolves, and worse coming 
down from the Weather Hills and entering the Chetwood 
have reached even the Bree-­wardens with such frequency 
that they can no longer be dismissed as simple rumours or 
idle gossip. Fitch Talltree has forbidden the people of Archet 
from venturing far too deeply into the forest alone, and more 
than one of the woodsmen that dare to dwell in this area have 
abandoned their cabins, or worse, these homesteads have 
been discovered abandoned and burnt.
THE MIDGEWATER MARSHES
East of the Chetwood, the ground falls steadily, and soon 
becomes damp and boggy. This flat expanse of country 
becomes dotted by pools of water, lined by patches of reeds 
and rushes. Keeping a proper course becomes difficult, even 
for experienced travellers, as no tracks can be made out 
among the shifting quagmires. After a few miles, one enters 
the proper Midgewater Marshes, a treacherous wetland owing 
its name to clouds of tiny midges.
No one goes into this marshland, unless they must flee 
from mortal danger. Camping is cold and uncomfortable, and 
the insects make sleeping a misery — because if the midges 
were not enough, the bog is also infested by a noisy relative 
of the cricket that never ceases to squeak, all night long. 
the great east road
No Man, Dwarf, or Hobbit in Eriador can recall a time before 
the East Road — it is likely that its history reaches into the 
misty past of previous ages of the world. The Dwarves claim 
it began in the Iron Hills, far to the east beyond the Misty 
Mountains, beyond even Erebor. From those distant peaks 
it runs all the way to the Grey Havens on the Gulf of Lhûn. 
Originally built to facilitate swift travel between the many 
Dwarven kingdoms of the Elder Days that have since fallen, 
the East Road is still widely used today by all manner of trav-
ellers in Eriador — though it is by no means safe or kept in 
good repair, save in the Shire where those peaceable people 
TRAVELLING IN THE CHETWOOD
The Lore­master can use the following table if Player-­heroes decide to venture into the deep parts of the Chetwood or its more 
dangerous regions near the Midgewater Marshes or the Weather Hills. Simply roll a Feat Die and consult the table below.
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
Fitch Talltree
The Player-­heroes encounter the Forester of Archet himself. Depending on the nature 
of their errand, he may aid them or offer them insight into the goings-­on of the Chet-
wood. He can also easily guide them back to Archet.
1–2
Mistaken for Orcs
A Chetwood hunter fires an arrow at the Player-­heroes from a concealed position some 
distance off. They have mistaken them for a party of Orcs in the shadowy light of the 
forest.
3–4
Abandoned 
Homestead
The Player-­heroes come across an abandoned cabin that appears to have been ran-
sacked by Goblins, with signs of a bloody struggle.
5–6
Hunted by Wolves
The Player-­heroes notice they are being tracked by a small pack of wolves. If they don’t 
make a successful HUNTING roll to throw them off, they’ll likely attack in the coming 
hours.
7–8
Sinkhole
Caught in a morass of mud concealed by a layer of leaves and lichen, the characters 
sink and find themselves trapped. They will need to make a successful ATHLETICS roll to 
free themselves, and the struggle to get free will cause them to gain 3 Fatigue and lose 
a day of travel.
9–10
Goblin Scouts
Goblins have come down from the Weather Hills to scout the Chetwood. They have 
spotted the Player-­heroes and will try to ambush them.
Troll of the Weather 
Hills
A Troll is tearing through the Chetwood, making no effort at subtlety or stealth. It spots 
the Player-­heroes and immediately moves to attack, in search of a fresh meal.

CHAPTER 9
190
maintain their ancient duty, all the while hoping that no out-
sider would bother coming through their land at all.
The quality of the East Road is inconsistent at best, with 
some stretches running for miles as paved stones and well-­
packed earth, while at other times it seems little more than a 
wide muddy scar across an abandoned landscape. Merchants 
and wanderers who make use of the East Road are likely to see 
broken towers and ruined castles that have been reclaimed 
by time or fallen to neglect.
As far as the Bree-­land is concerned, the East Road 
is its lifeblood. Merchants from the Blue Mountains pass 
on through it and continue further east as in olden days, 
to trade with their kinfolk on the other side of the Misty 
Mountains or the Men of Dale. These adventurous mer-
chants arm themselves well for such a journey, for the road 
is long and hard and fraught with peril. Between the trees 
that loom over the road, one can see distant hills occu-
pied by broken castles. Travellers describe them as having 
an evil look, as if they had been built by wicked people. 
Strange lights can be seen lingering inside them on cold, 
moonless nights. 
THE FORSAKEN INN
On the eastern edge of the Bree-­land there is a ramshackle 
wooden hovel that is easily mistaken by the casual observer for 
a forgotten and abandoned cabin, rotting by the road. It is only 
the steady stream of unsavory characters trickling in and out of 
the crooked front door that reveals it to be an inn — if only in 
the most broad sense of the word. 
Aptly called the Forsaken Inn, this establishment attracts 
patrons fitting its appearance and name. Criminals, desper-
ate wanderers, and those who are best avoided seek refuge 
here, drinking the worst kind of swill, and sleeping on flea-­
infested mattresses set out beneath the leaky roof of the com-
mon room. Those who complain of a draft in the evening 
are given a lice-­ridden blanket and charged an extra silver 
penny for the privilege.
OVER THE EDGE OF THE WILD
For those who travel east along the road, there are 
still many miles from the Forsaken Inn to the Last 
Bridge and then from there to the High Pass over 
the Misty Mountains. The wide land on the other 
side of the mountains is known as Rhovanion, the 
Wilderland. There are many good reasons for such 
an ominous name. Not only did the region once 
host a Dragon’s lair, but its greater part is occupied 
by the forest of Mirkwood, home to Giant Spiders, 
Orcs, and other dangerous creatures.
But of late the Wilderland has become a little 
less wild. Smaug, the Dragon who once occupied 
the Lonely Mountain, was slain by King Bard and 
the kingdoms of Dale and Erebor were restored. 
The Necromancer was driven from his fortress of 
Dol Guldur in southern Mirkwood, and the inhab-
itants of Rhovanion have new hope for the future. 
Merchants and adventurers set off to explore 
Wilderland or distant Eriador, and the East Road 
has never seen such traffic in the living memories 
of all but the Elves.

THE WORLD
191
ENCOUNTERS ON THE EAST ROAD
The East Road is full of dangerous people and strange locales. Lore­masters can roll a Feat Die and consult the table below if they 
wish to add a bit of flavour to the Player-­heroes’ journey on its long path.
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
Rangers
The company is being followed, but their pursuers reveal themselves to be Rangers of 
the North, and offer to guide the characters for a brief time on their journey. Gain (1d) 
on the next Travel roll made while on the East Road.
1
Mournful Stones
While travelling, a strange howling wind blows through the broken stones of a nearby 
ruin. It is unnaturally cold, and its melancholy takes hold in the characters’ bones.
2
Fallen King
Walking past what seems a dense thicket of brambles, the Player-­heroes spot the fallen 
statue of some ancient King of Men. It is shaped like a grim and resolute warrior, now 
covered in dirt and worn by time. But at its feet, a wreath of flowers grows, and anyone 
who examines it and makes a HUNTING roll can identify the plant as Kingsfoil. A sprig of 
it can be harvested, allowing a hero to gain (1d) when making a HEALING roll. It is con-
sumed in the process.
3
Carrion Eyes
A flock of ill-­tempered crows watches the characters, flitting from tree to tree, stone to 
stone, for a mile or so before suddenly taking flight and heading to the mountain ranges 
to the north. Are they spies for the Goblins of Mount Gram? Or worse, for Angmar itself?
4
Predators in the 
Firelight
A small pack of Wild Wolves stalks around the Player-­heroes as they camp or walk upon 
the East Road at night. If not driven off with an AWE roll, they will attack. Fearsome, but 
ultimately cowardly, they will flee if they discover that the Player-­heroes are no easy 
prey.
5
Sun Upon the Stone
While passing close to a half crumbled stone tower, the sunlight reflects off an unblem-
ished wall of the ancient structure, and for an instant, a hint of its original greatness is 
revealed.
6
Lost Merchant
A Dwarf merchant returning to the Blue Mountains is injured and weary from his 
travels, and asks the Player-­heroes to guide him to the nearest farmstead. If they 
aid the Dwarf, the merchant will reward the heroes with 1 Treasure worth of silver 
pennies.
7
Highway Robbers
Masquerading as an innocent traveller who has been separated from their companions, a 
Highway Robber will attempt to lead the Player-­heroes a short distance off the road and 
into an ambush where several of their allies wait.
8
Strange Stars in High 
Towers
As the sun fades, the Player-­heroes see a cold light twinkling in the window of a broken 
tower near the horizon. The light seems to linger and follow them, dogging their steps 
from a distance before vanishing into the night.
9
Goblin Scouts
A Goblin Archer starts to track the Player-­heroes. If they do not notice or detect him with 
a successful AWARENESS or HUNTING roll, that night they will be ambushed by his allies. 
10
Song of Kings
Upon the banks of the Hoarwell or other body of water, the Player-­heroes see a 
beautiful maiden singing a sad song of the Elder Days in Sindarin. She looks at them, 
offers a melancholy smile, and fades from existence… though the song lingers on for 
a few moments.
Troll-­hole
The Player-­heroes stumble too close to a Troll’s lair and awaken a Cave-troll! He lumbers 
out and attempts to slaughter them for a fine meal!

CHAPTER 9
192
Even the ill-­favoured Rangers of the North do not often 
go here. The proprietor, who refuses to give his name even 
to paying customers and is then called simply ‘Jack the For-
saken’ by most, has no concerns about who enters his estab-
lishment, as long as they have silver to spend. Unfortunately, 
those with coins to pay had best sit with their backs to the 
wall, lest a patron make quick use of a dagger and relieve 
them of their wealth. 
the greenway
The Greenway crosses the East Road at the ancient meeting 
of ways to the west of Bree. Once known as the North Road, 
it fell into disrepair long ago, and in the vicinity of Bree it 
became so grass-­grown to earn its current nickname. Long 
ago, its north-­south course joined the kingdom of Arnor to 
its southern counterpart, the realm of Gondor, running for 
thousands of miles. On its way, it passed the great bridge at 

THE WORLD
193
RUINS ALONG THE GREENWAY
The Greenway is lined with many ancient ruins. If the Player-­heroes decide to investigate such a site during their travels between 
Fornost Erain and Tharbad, the Lore­master can roll a Feat Die and use the following table.
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
Ancient 
Hospitality
The Player-­heroes come upon a small keep some distance off the Greenway, tended by a lordly old 
man who offers them hospitality. If they accept and treat him well by making a successful COURTESY 
roll, that night they will dream of the glory of the towers of Annúminas and the shining shores of 
Lake Evendim. By dawn, they reduce their Shadow by 1, though in the morning the kindly old lord is 
gone, and there is no sign of the keep having ever been inhabited. 
1
Abandoned 
Stable
Stumbling upon the ruins of an abandoned roadside stable, the Player-­heroes see a wild steed graz-
ing in the grass. The majestic beast can be calmed with a successful HUNTING or ENHEARTEN roll. Each 
 rolled represents a training opportunity and if a hero makes three tests with at least one 
 show-
ing each time within a week’s time then the horse can be ridden.
2
The Watch 
Ends
A battered tower stands a little distance from the road. A crescent moon is carved in stone upon its 
arched entryway. If the Player-­heroes climb to its top on a night with a crescent moon, they find a 
single soldier standing watch. The guard politely asks if they are there to relieve him and if they say 
yes, the soldier bows and then heads downstairs — if any follow, they lose sight of the guard.
3
Ring of Petals 
and Stone
A small ring of white stones, overgrown with beautiful wildflowers lies not far off the road. No dan-
gerous natural predators will cross the circle.
4
Elven 
Minstrel
One afternoon, the Player-­heroes meet an Elf who asks to walk with them for a time. She tells 
them that she is composing songs to honour Menelmacar who will arrive soon. If the heroes have 
patience with the minstrel then they are in for a night of song and celebration. Each hero recovers 
1 Hope. If they are rude or impatient with the Elf, she excuses herself before nightfall and they gain 
no benefits. 
5
Southerner 
Ambush
A Southerner Raider is hobbling up the Greenway, masquerading as an injured farmer. She asks the 
characters to walk with her to her nearby homestead, but when they arrive they find it to be a ram-
shackle barn where several of the Raider’s allies ambush the Player-­heroes.
6
Orc 
Stragglers
A long stone wall follows the Greenway for a time here, and a handful of Orcs crouch beneath the 
wall, waiting for the Player-­heroes to pass. An AWARENESS roll detects their presence. If they’re not 
spotted, then if the party outnumbers them they will remain hidden. If the group is very small, the 
Orcs might choose to ambush them instead.
7
Collapsed 
Cairn
A great mound of stones has been scattered near the road, a SCAN roll reveals a large barrow has 
been dug down into the wet earth. Unfortunately, this makeshift tomb has become the lair of a 
Barrow-­wight, who will attack anyone who intrudes upon its resting place.
8
Burnt 
Homestead
Once the farmhouse of someone who lived upon the Greenway, it is now a ruined pile of burnt rub-
ble. A successful SCAN roll reveals that the occupants did not escape the fire, and that several appear 
to have been slain by Orc arrows before the flames took them.
9
Displaced 
Southerner
A wandering Southerner, weary and travel-­worn, asks for the Player-­heroes’ charity by letting him 
share their food and fire for the evening. If treated kindly, he will provide them with many stories 
about his distant country.
10
Slain 
Wanderer
The characters come upon the corpse of a Man slain no more than a few days ago with vicious cuts 
and Orc arrows. His clothing is tattered, and a small brooch is clasped under his cloak, in the shape 
of a rayed star. Anyone who makes a successful LORE roll can identify him as a Ranger of the North. If 
his brooch is returned to his people, a small favor might be asked in return.
Corrupted 
Tomb
Long ago, wars raged across these lands as kingdoms fought against the armies of the Witch-­
king and each other. This tomb once held a great captain, but now it is only home to Fell Wraiths 
from ancient Angmar who will harass and delay the company.

CHAPTER 9
194
Tharbad, until it was flooded and mostly abandoned, and the 
crossing reduced to a dangerous ford. 
Having lost most of its traffic, the Greenway has earned 
a dark reputation as a dangerous thoroughfare, plagued by 
bandits and cutthroats. Yet, groups of honest folk endure 
in small communities, spread thinly along the way. Many of 
these settlements are composed of a handful of homesteads, 
populated by refugees from Tharbad and their descendants. 
Huddling together for protection, they live an isolated exis-
tence, leaving their fortified sanctuaries exclusively to trade. 
They are often glum and taciturn, and may seem concerned 
only with their own survival in this wild, lonely place. 
But the folk of the Greenway are not without kindness 
in their hearts, and have, on occasion, offered refuge to 
wayward travellers. Some still cling to very ancient traditions, 
considering themselves scions of the ancient kingdom that 
once held all this land under its protection. Proof of their 
ancient ancestry, they say, is evident in the many ruins that 
can be found near their settlements along the Greenway, 
and in the remains of the ancient buildings that are found 
under their very homes, every time that anyone digs for 
just a few feet. 
the barrow-­downs
To the east of the Shire, beyond the Old Forest, rise the green-­
grey hills known in Hobbit-­legend as the Barrow-­downs. It is 
a maze-­like country, made of grassy ridges rising one after 
another, with deep green hollows in between. If on a jour-
ney, it is much wiser to travel around them, especially since 
the great East Road lies immediately north of the Downs. If 
a traveller must pass through them, they go quickly and only 
when the sun is up. 
By day, the scent of turf is strong and sweet, and the air 
itself is often still when caught between hillside and hillside, 
silent except for the high calls of strange birds. As one pro-
ceeds eastward coming from the forest, the hills grow higher 
and steeper, their tops crowned with mounds and standing 
stones. When the sun begins to set, a mist rises to obscure the 
landscape, slowly turning into a thick and cold fog, covering 
the land as a shroud.
THE COLD STONE
At the very centre of the Barrow-­downs is a hill 
with a wide and flattened top, rimmed by a low 
raised edge. A single monolith stands tall in its 
middle, like a finger raised in admonishment. Its 
stone surface is always cold at the touch, even 
when hit directly by the light of the sun.
Whoever climbs to the top of the hill is cursed 
to encounter a Barrow-­wight as soon as the night 
comes. Additionally, anyone touching the mono-
lith gains 1 point of Shadow.

THE WORLD
195
Anyone caught in this white sea risks falling prey to 
the dreadful spells of the Barrow-­wights, spirits inhabit-
ing the hollow chambers buried under the green mounds 
on top of the hills. These crypts served as tombs for those 
who once ruled over Eriador, in the time of the kings, but 
there is no rest for them, as their bones are stirred by an 
evil will. Travellers who lose their path in the fog find sud-
denly in the shadow of huge standing stones, and hear cold 
voices coming out of the ground, calling them. If they fail 
to resist the call, they will be taken by the Barrow-­wights 
and imprisoned. 
THE GREAT BARROW
Rising on one of the highest hills in the Barrow-­downs, 
this burial mound conceals a vast underground complex, 
descending deeply into the bowels of the earth, with dark 
and cold tunnels winding into many lesser burial chambers, 
where dozens of warriors are entombed with their gear of 
war and precious treasure. The stink of decay, stagnation, 
and rot chokes any who are foolish enough to push aside 
the great carven stone that blocks the entryway into this 
labyrinth of the dead. 
This is the haunted lair of the Wight-­king, the chief of 
all blighted creatures who dwell in Tyrn Gorthad. Some 
say he was the last King of Cardolan, buried in the Barrow-­
downs before the Great Plague. Others hold him to be the 
malicious spirit of some fell captain who once served Ang-
mar. What is certain is that in the ages since the barrow was 
dug, the Wight-­king has carved for himself a great throne 
room, deep in the darkness. Concealed from the light of 
day, he sits and festers in his own hatred, his lust for death 
satiated only when intruders dare enter his domain, or on 
the rare occasions when he walks among the mists of the 
Barrow-­downs under cover of darkness. Stories of his empty 
eyes, his broken blade, and his terrible song have kept 
most would-­be tomb robbers from daring to come near his 
domain — and those who do are seldom heard from again.
The Wight-­king
Scant few have seen the Wight-­king and lived to tell 
the tale, but mad tomb-­robbers who have come out of 
the Barrow-­downs tell of a fleshless warrior wearing the 
blackened raiment of an ancient noble. Empty black eyes 
burn behind a great, cracked helm, and a pitted blade is 
clutched in his left hand. All that is dead and yet still lives 
by sorcery or the will of the Enemy is his to command.
The Wight-­king leaves the Great Barrow only at 
night, and moves in darkness and silence across Tyrn 
Gorthad, singing songs of hopelessness and sorrow 
in both the Common Tongue and the Black Speech of 
Mordor. 
THE WIGHT-­KING
Cunning, Fierce, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
9
ENDURANCE
45
MIGHT
2
HATE
9
PARRY
 –
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Ancient Sword 3 (5/18, Pierce),  
Icy Touch 3 (6/12, Break Shield)
FELL ABILITIES: Darker than the Darkness. Spend 1 Hate to 
summon a supernatural darkness. Player-heroes in close 
combat lose (2d) on their first attack against the crea-
ture, while ranged attacks lose (2d) for the whole fight.
Denizen of the Dark. All attack rolls are Favoured 
while in darkness.
Dreadful Spells. Spend 1 Hate to make one Player-­
hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Targets who fail 
their Shadow test or who are Miserable fall unconscious 
and may be roused only with a SONG roll. Otherwise, 
they wake up after one hour.
Hate Sunlight. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
the north downs
The North Downs are a landscape of high hills and gullies, 
covered in grass and dotted by many ruins. They stretch in 
a north-­eastern direction for many leagues from where the 
Greenway ends, until they give way to the empty Lone-­lands 
running towards Angmar of old. Once the North Downs stood 
at the heart of a great kingdom, but these wild lands are now 
deserted, and all that is left are broken towers and crumbling 
walls. The region is not entirely devoid of life though, quite 
the contrary — wild hares and sheep roam the land, grazing 
on the lush grassland, and kestrels cross the sky searching for 
prey. If this place wasn’t shunned as cursed, the North Downs 
would prove bountiful as a hunting ground. 
Recently, a particular type of predator has made its lair in 
the North Downs, profiting from its ill-­repute and contribut-
ing to it — a good number of reckless robbers and brigands 
have found refuge in its half-­ruined towers and stone home-
steads. They waylay travellers along the Greenway, and exact 
payment from merchants heading to Bree or returning from 
there, ready to disappear into the North Downs if pursued. 

CHAPTER 9
196
The presence of these bands of rogues is starting to worry 
those who have sworn to keep safe the land of old Arnor. 
Indeed, the Rangers of the North used to maintain several 
of their secret refuges in hidden dales close to where the city 
of Fornost Erain used to be, centuries ago, and they have 
been forced to abandon them when the bandits moved in 
the North Downs. Of course, the Rangers won’t suffer this 
interference for long. Talandil, a veteran Ranger and self-­
appointed guardian of Fornost Erain, is already seeking help 
among adventurers willing to fight to free the area from the 
bandit threat.
FORNOST ERAIN
In the southern foothills of the North Downs lies what remains 
of a great city of stone, now almost completely reclaimed by 
time and nature. This place is called Deadmen’s Dike by those 
who live in Bree and fear it, and Norbury by the most scholarly 
among Shire-­hobbits. But only those mysterious wanderers 
called the Rangers recall its former glory as a great fortress 
and city built in the time of the kings out of the sea, and 
called Fornost Erain.
Centuries ago, the walls and towers of Fornost were 
broken when the city was attacked by Angmar and sacked. 
Though the Witch-­king sat upon the throne of Fornost for 
only a brief while, the defilement of the city left a scar 
so deep that it never rose again. In the Twilight of the Third 
Age, the roots of trees hundreds of years old have broken 
through the stones that paved its streets, and ivy and lichen 
have covered its once white walls. The folk of the Bree-­land 
call this place cursed, and none dare dwell there. Even the 
most callous tomb-­robbers do not cross into the ruins of 
Fornost Erain, for it is said that the spirits of the men who 
died protecting the city still linger there, hoping to redeem 
their name by forbidding anyone to enter.
Only the Rangers of the North venture into that broken 
place, and for their bravery, they are scorned by the people 
of Bree, for they believe that anyone willing to live in the 
shadows of the fallen city must themselves be as cursed as 
the place itself.
THE DOME OF SIGHT: Caved in upon itself from the weight of 
the years, this great, domed chamber once housed the Seeing 
Stones of the North Kingdom: the chief stone that once was 
kept at Amon Sûl, and the Stone of Annúminas, now both 
lost. A part of the chamber is now underground and is still 
accessible from the surface. If reached, one can observe part 

THE WORLD
197
of the dome that hasn’t collapsed yet, a high vault covered 
by mosaic tiles composing the image of a starlit sky. Some 
among the Rangers say that the ceramic tiles of the mosaic 
still retain images of faraway places.
THE THRONE ROOM OF ARVEDUI: Some among the older 
Rangers of the North talk of a vast, underground chamber, 
surviving intact under the ruins of what they claim was the 
Hall of Eärendur, the royal palace of Fornost. It’s the throne 
RUINS AND BROKEN STONES
Characters exploring the North Downs will often stumble upon ruins and ancient testimonies of the war that destroyed this place. 
The Lore­master can roll on the following table to determine what they find.
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
A Secret Hoard
The Player-­heroes uncover a spiralling mosaic on the floor of a ruined building. A SCAN roll 
reveals a removable slab of marble. Under it lies a hoard of treasure, hidden there before the 
city was plundered. Golden dishes, cups studded with precious stones, lacquered drinking 
horns, and a small armoury of items of worth is secreted here. The amount of Treasure points is 
up to the Lore­master.
1
Forgotten 
Words
The Player-­heroes uncover an inscription in Adûnaic (on a wall, a slab of marble, or on a mosaic 
floor, for example). A roll of LORE is required to translate it. The content hints at the whereabouts 
of one place among The Dome of Sight (page 196), The Throne Room of Arvedui (see below), or 
The Records of the Last King (page 198).
2
A Lingering 
Shadow
On a successful AWARENESS roll, the Player-­heroes discover that they are being shadowed by 
someone. The mysterious spy disappears after a few hours, or if called out.
3
Home Brought 
to Ruin
The players discover the remains of a stone house that is still accessible. Inscriptions allow the 
Player-­heroes to identify it as the ancient home of a noble from Arthedain, but idle scrawls and 
foul symbols also indicate that the building suffered from the ruin that Angmar brought upon 
the city.
4
Scavengers
The Player-­heroes stumble upon a group of three Highway Robbers in the middle of plun-
dering what might be a tomb. Whether or not they become violent depends on how they are 
treated by the Player-­heroes. What treasures they have on them (if any) should be determined 
by the Lore­master, but their finds would be typically worth 1–2 Treasure.
5
Voices from the 
Past
While travelling across the North Downs, the Player-­heroes hear the galloping of steeds at 
full charge, the sound of steel on steel, and the cries of both the victorious and the dying. The 
sound appears and fades without warning, seeming to come from all around the characters.
6–8
Unstable 
Foundations
The earth beneath their feet gives way, and the Player-­heroes tumble into a chamber of a long-­
collapsed building.
9
Battered  
War Gear
The Player-­heroes discover a helm that, though dented and weather-­worn, looks like it could 
easily be repaired and polished. It bears the crest of the Kings of Arnor, and might once again 
protect a noble brow.
10
Restless Soul
The Player-­heroes share a dream where a warrior of Arthedain asks them to give their remains 
a proper burial. A SCAN roll around their night camp uncovers a collapsed watchtower and the 
skeleton of a fallen guard. 
Spirits out of 
Angmar
A group of Fell Wraiths of equal number to the Player-­heroes, rise out of the darkness of a 
burned ruin that projects from the fields of the North Downs like a jagged wound. They attack, 
filled with malice for all who live and would dare to trespass on their long absent Witch-­king’s 
field of victory.

CHAPTER 9
198
room of Arvedui, a long hall with tall pillars reaching up 
towards the ceiling, carved with a craft now lost to the ages. 
A raised throne stands among broken stones that fell from 
the ceiling, its high marble back decorated with the image of 
a single, many-rayed star. The throne itself seems untouched 
by time.
THE RECORDS OF THE LAST KING: The life of Arvedui, Last 
king, was ill-­fated, and most of what is remembered of him 
concerns his fall. Few recall that in life he was considered 
Elven-­wise, and that he held council with many among the 
Fair folk. He kept many books of lore and records of these 
meetings in a private library, a chamber of records now con-
cealed beneath the ruin of his palace. Should it be discovered, 
its content would offer great insight into the mind of the last 
king and the affairs of his final days.
the south downs
Bordered to the west by the Greenway and to the north by the 
East Road, the South Downs is a range of hills running from 
east to west for about a hundred miles. Dreary, empty and 
featureless, the hills sport little vegetation and few animals 
make their lairs there. The Bree-­folk and the Rangers have 
little reason to travel across this wild region, and avoid it when-
ever possible, disliking in particular the occasional miasma 
that drifts east from the Barrow-­downs.
THE HOWLING HOLLOWS
Long ago, Wolves from the Misty Mountains came west 
into Eriador to hunt. Some never returned, and made 
new lairs in the South Downs, as they found the desolate 
hills to offer good sanctuary. In time, they have burrowed 
deeply under the hills, creating a web of caves. From here, 
they go out at night to search for prey. 
These secret hollows give shelter to a pack of a dozen 
Wolves, but word is spreading among the cunning beasts, 
and more wicked creatures are coming to the South Downs.
Búrzgul
Búrzgul is a wicked Orc warrior, the chieftain of a ragged 
band of Orcs from Goblin Gate that made the trip from 
the Misty Mountains to the South Downs, to join forces 
with the Wolves of the Howling Hollows. Búrzgul heard of 
the place from his most trusted friend, a large Warg with 

THE WORLD
199
midnight-­black fur and gleaming yellow eyes, going by 
the name of Ash. For the moment, no one, not even the 
Rangers of the North know of the threat festering under 
the hills of the South Downs. On their part, the Wolves and 
Orcs bide their time, and for the moment have made only 
a few careful attacks, leaving no survivors. Perhaps most 
dangerous of all is that Búrzgul regularly sends runners 
back to larger Orc forces in both Angmar and the Misty 
Mountains, so news of Bree is never far from the ears of 
the agents of the Shadow.
BÚRZGUL
Cruel, Keen-­eyed
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
22
MIGHT
1
HATE
5
PARRY
 +3
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Scimitar 3 (3/16, Break Shield), 
Spear 2 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Orc-­poison. If an attack results in a Wound, 
the target is also poisoned (see page 134 for the effects 
of poison).
Snake-­like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-­favoured.
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
ASH
Cunning, Swift
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
 +2
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Fangs 3 (4/14, Pierce),  
Claws 2 (5/14)
FELL ABILITIES: Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at 
the start of each round it is engaged in close combat 
with an adversary wielding a torch or other burning 
item. 
Savage Assault. Spend 1 Hate after a Fangs attack to 
immediately roll a Claws attack on the same target.
the weather hills 
The Weather Hills rise in a long, northward undulating ridge, 
starting in the south where the East Road passes under the 
shadow of their tallest rise, the hill of Weathertop. Overgrown 
walls and old, broken stonework are on full display atop these 
high hills, visible to any wanderer travelling on the road. The 
Men of the West did not live here, but fought and died in 
bitter wars against Angmar — the ruins that dot the hills are 
what remains of ancient forts and watchtowers, and the paths 
and tracks that served them. A mournful air hangs over the 
Weather Hills. The hilltops are bleak and treeless, and the 
dells deep and shadowy.
WEATHERTOP
Weathertop, or Amon Sûl, as the Rangers call it, is the south-
ernmost hill of the Weather Hills. On its summit once stood a 
tall and fair watchtower, built in the days of the North King-
dom. It was once used to store a Seeing Stone, one of the 
greatest treasures that Elendil brought out of Númenor. The 
tower was burned and broken during the wars with Angmar, 
and only a ring of stonework remains to crown the hilltop. 
The Rangers of the North often come here, to watch 
over the surrounding land, and to pay tribute to one of the 
places they hold in greater regard. Those few who make the 
long ascent to reach this ancient place often find encrypted 
notes and supplies left by the mysterious wanderers of Eriador.

CHAPTER 9
200
angmar
In the northern reaches of eastern Eriador, beyond the Etten-
moors and the peak of Mount Gram, lies the land that of 
old saw the witch-­realm of Angmar. Long ago, the Chief of 
the Ringwraiths himself ruled this land from his fortress of 
Carn Dûm, wielding fear and terror and commanding great 
armies of Orcs, Goblins and Hill-­men. He made war against 
the North Kingdom of Arnor and its successor kingdoms, 
destroying them. But his kingdom was obliterated in turn, 
when a great host of Elves and Men came north to challenge 
him. He fled from the ruin of his armies, deserting them.
Now, as a new darkness descends on Eriador and smoke 
issues forth from Mount Doom once again, the ancient realm 
of Angmar seems to stir once more. A cold wind blows from 
the north and all evil things feel a call to return to Carn Dûm. 
The Wise worry that a new servant of Sauron occupies the for-
tress again. Orcs are coming north from the south and east; 
Trolls venture out from their hiding holes in the Ettenmoors, 
crossing the Grey Waste northwards. Even tribes of Hill-­men 
from Rhudaur have started to answer the call.
Although the High Elves and the Dúnedain keep a careful 
watch on its borders, few dare to venture into that desolate 
land. Who has explored Angmar and returned speaks of a 
grey desert of gnarled trees and broken stones. Freezing winds 
blast down from the mountains, to bite at every traveller. It 
seems that winter rules all year long in this land and that Carn 
Dûm itself lies still and waiting under the ice.
Beneath the snow are bare traces of the roadways that 
once crossed this land. Towers, encampments and entire vil-
lages lay dead beneath the cold. But at night one can some-
times see lights in the towers and hear strange sounds on the 
wind. It may be that Angmar is waking up, and that may bring 
doom to the North and prevent the Wise from sending any 
help south to combat the growing threat of Mordor.
CARN DÛM
Once the seat of power of the Witch-­king of the North, this icy 
tower is hidden in the endless labyrinth of passes and tunnels 
that snake through the Mountains of Angmar. Even though 
the Witch-­king himself has yet to return home, rumours of 
rekindled forges, gathering armies, and fell sorcery occurring 
in the dungeons of the broken tower are heard as far as Bree 
itself. Whether these rumours have any substance to them or 
not remains to be seen, but the growing threat of the Enemy’s 
forces and their increased presence in Eriador hints at there 
being a terrible truth behind these dark whispers. 
the ettenmoors
Under the looming reach of the Misty Mountains is a bleak 
highland of fog-­shrouded moors and marshland that is 
inhospitable to all but the hardiest. Even the Rangers of the 
North are loath to travel there, for it’s a cold and unforgiving 

THE WORLD
201
land. Its close proximity to both Mount Gram and the Misty 
Mountains keeps the Ettenmoors wrapped in a thick fog that 
sunlight never seems to fully pierce. A great many Trolls 
wander this region, eager to catch wayward travellers lost in 
the wilderness and devour them. So brutal are these terrible 
beasts that, as if driven to madness, they have even turned 
their attention to Mount Gram itself and on more than one 
occasion raided the Goblin tunnels that are still hidden from 
the sun beneath the stone cliffs of that rocky terrain.
mount gram
A long mountain range rises west out from the Misty 
Mountains and marks the southern border between Angmar 
and the Ettenmoors. Its highest peak is Mount Gram, a name 
remembered mostly in songs from the Shire as the domain 
of Golfimbul, who was slain by Bandobras “Bullroarer” Took 
during the Battle of Greenfields several hundred years ago. 
In that silent and shadowy region, Orcs, Goblins, and even 
some Trolls have restored their numbers, now rivalling those 
of the days when Angmar drove them to war. Though they 
remain secret, it is only a matter of time before their craving 
for blood and the will of their master drives them to fall once 
more on Eriador.

CHAPTER 9
202
the trollshaws
In the land beyond the Last Bridge, between the Hoarwell 
River in the west and the Loudwater River in the east, the East 
Road is almost swallowed by a rough, rocky landscape, broken 
only by thick patches of woodland. The horrid brutes that 
hide in the numerous caverns that dot the stony landscape 
are the source of the land’s name: The Trollshaws. The few 
hardy (or foolish) travellers that dare go so far from civilisa-
tion and travel so near to the Misty Mountains should be wise 
to never stray from the Road.
Should some reckless wanderer step off the path, they 
will find broken towers and ancient castles dragged down to 
rubble, hidden atop the low stony highlands that cast long 
shadows over the East Road, while the forests between these 
long abandoned buildings are filled with dangerous pred-
ators and savage foes — many of whom have come down 
from the Coldfells or out of their dark holes in the Misty 
Mountains. Regardless of their origin, they have no love for 
the Free People, seeing them as little more than prey to be 
slaughtered.
TROLL-­HOLES
The Trollshaws are literally riddled with caves, opened or dug by Trolls to serve as their lairs. The Lore­master can use the table 
below to quickly and easily come up with a unique location for a Troll-­hole.
FEAT DIE 
ROLL
RESULT
DESCRIPTION
Abandoned
The Player-­heroes stumble upon a Troll that has been turned to stone by the sun while 
within sight of its Troll-­hole. A successful SCAN roll reveals items worth 1–2 Treasure 
among the Troll’s ill-­gotten gains.
1–2
Root Nest
A large tree has split wide open at its base and descends into a shallow, muddy hole 
that serves as lair to a Troll. It is slippery and difficult to navigate. 
3–4
Crumbling Tower
A once magnificent tower that has collapsed in on itself has become the home of a 
Troll. It is of dubious stability and could cave in entirely at any time.
5–6
Shallow Cave
A cave that goes no more than a few feet into the side of a small stone hill is as close to 
a traditional Troll-­hole as one can imagine, and could easily be avoided were it not so 
close to the East Road.
7–8
Behind the Falls
A small pool of water with a low waterfall coming off a stone rise serves as the home to 
a Troll, who wades into the water before ducking beneath the falls and coming up on 
the other side in an easily overlooked lair.
9–10
Under Construction
The characters stumble upon a Troll who is tearing away at trees and rocks, freeing an 
opening leading to a cave. 
Not Alone
The Player-­heroes begin to explore a cave that seems both shallow and abandoned. 
But looks are deceiving and when they find their way deeper into the cave, they sud-
denly come face-­to-­face with a Troll!

THE WORLD
203
THE LAST BRIDGE
Approximately one hundred miles east from Weathertop, a 
great stone bridge crosses the Hoarwell River in three arches 
over a deep gorge. Crossing it means entering the Trollshaws, 
a very dangerous wild land. As its name implies, this bridge is 
the last opportunity for a wanderer to turn back and return 
to more civilised areas.
The stones of the Last Bridge are old and worn, often 
slick when rain has fallen, with little more than a knee-­high 
barrier on each side to prevent travellers from slipping and 
falling into the cold, rushing waters of the Hoarwell far below. 
This is taken as yet another sign of both the Bridge’s age and 
the impending doom awaiting any who cross it.
tharbad
This ruined city lies where the Greyflood is no longer navi-
gable for sea-­going ships. Of course, this hasn’t mattered for 
many, many years, but there was once plentiful commerce in 
Tharbad, even before the founding of the city proper. A great 
bridge was built first, then a fortress to guard it, and then an 
entire city grew up around the crossing. Tharbad endured, 
through wars, plagues, and worse, though its population dwin-
dled. It became no longer a place where travellers met, but a 
market town for the locals. The latest calamity struck about 
50 years ago, when the Fell Winter brought great floods in 
spring. The rushing waters of the swollen river could not 
destroy the town itself, but the bridge was washed away, along 
with many people. 
Yet, Tharbad was not entirely abandoned. In these years 
of Twilight, a former bandit by the name of Gurnow rules the 
city with a strong hand. He has promised to keep the road 
safe, repair the bridge, and protect the surviving inhabitants 
from harm. He tells the folk that he has many friends in other 
lands and that Tharbad will be restored. The city waits to see 
if his speeches will yet turn into actions.
More detailed information on Tharbad can be found in 
Ruins of the Lost Realm.
lindon
The wide seaward land to the west of the Blue Mountains 
is the Elven realm of Lindon. The region is what remains 
of the great country of Beleriand, destroyed almost entirely 
in wars that only the long-­lived Elves remember. Originally 
populated by the survivors of that land, it was for a while 
the greatest nation of the Elves in Middle-­earth. Gil-­galad, 
the last king of the Noldor, dwelt there, as did Celeborn and 
Galadriel, before they went to Lórien. In time, Celebrimbor 
led many of the High Elves away east, to found Eregion, after 
hearing of the discovery of mithril in the mines of Moria. 
The land of Lindon comprises Forlindon and Harlindon, 
the coastlands to the north and south of the Gulf of Lhûn. It 
once included land to the east of the Ered Luin, but today 
the Tower Hills represent its most eastern borders. No Men 
cross into Lindon, but Dwarves still maintain some remote 
halls in the Blue Mountains, both north and south of the 
Gulf of Lhûn. 

CHAPTER 9
204
OTHER LANDS
Where the Misty Mountains reach their southernmost 
end, there opens the Gap of Rohan, the gate leading 
from Eriador to the lands of Calenardhon. It is a green 
province of rolling hills and meadows, bordered to the 
south by the Ered Nimrais, the White Mountains. It is 
today known as the Riddermark, the Mark of the Riders.
Further to the East, the Great River descends from 
the North in wide bends, eventually slowing its course 
into a vast marshland. Before the Anduin reaches the 
Sea, it enters the land of Gondor, the South-­kingdom 
of the Men of the West. Beyond its borders lies Harad 
to the south, and to the east, the black land of Mordor. 
MORDOR: Encircled by ranges of broken and barren 
peaks to the north, west and south, lies the Land of 
Mordor. It is a vast, desolate region, made of mournful 
plains of ash and blasted rock, dominated in the north 
by Orodruin, the Mountain of Fire. 
It is here that Sauron forged the One Ring, long 
ago, in the Chambers of Fire of Mount Doom, when he 
tried to seize domination of all Rings of Power. And it 
is here that he has returned, when he left his fortress 
of Dol Guldur. 
Since his return, Sauron has bent his will on the 
rebuilding of his power and the Dark Tower of Barad-­
dûr. In the last twenty years, his many servants have 
bored all the hills and rocks about the Black Gate of 
Mordor, filling every tunnel with deep armouries for 
the mustering of a great host. Away south, by the dark 
waters of Lake Núrnen, slaves till the fields for the pro-
vision of many armies.
At the mouth of the Gulf of Lhûn is Mithlond, the Grey 
Havens, from where the Elven-­ships bound to leave Middle-­
earth set sail and where Círdan the Shipwright is master. Since 
the death of Gil-­galad at the time of the Last Alliance of Elves 
and Men, the rule of the master of the Grey Havens is acknowl-
edged all over Lindon. Accounted among the Wise, he sends 
messengers often to Elrond, to offer and receive counsel. 
the blue mountains
The Ered Luin are an ancient mountain range, where two of 
the greatest cities of the Dwarves once were found. Nogrod 
and Belegost are no more, as they were destroyed at the 
end of the First Age, when Thangorodrim was broken. At 
that time, many Dwarves went to Khazad-­dûm, but the Ered 
Luin were never entirely forsaken. Many halls and mines are 
still open and populated, especially now that the Kingdom 
Under the Mountain has been restored, and there is travel 
and commerce between the Blue Mountains, Erebor, and 
the Iron Hills. In fact, Dwarves passing along the great East 
Road are the most reliable source of news in places like the 
Shire and Bree. 
Most of the mines that are still active in the Blue Moun-
tains are in the southern reach, below the Gulf of Lhûn. 
Many Dwarves dwelling there do not belong to the House 
of Durin. Some veins have been worked for thousands of 
years, slowly and steadily by the same family of Dwarves 
over the ages. 

THE WORLD
205

CHAPTER 9
206

THE WORLD
207
adventuring in middle-­earth
“The brave things in the old tales and songs, Mr. Frodo: adventures, as I used to call them. I used to 
think that they were things the wonderful folk of the stories went out and looked for, because they wanted 
them, because they were exciting and life was a bit dull, a kind of a sport, as you might say.”
Chapter 6 already tackled the issue of how to present an Adven-
turing Phase. This section presents a number of questions that 
can help the Loremaster to make the world of Middle-­earth 
itself a main element in the adventures of the Player-­heroes. 
when?
When is the Adventuring Phase taking place? Time is an 
important element to consider in The One Ring, as whatever 
happens will become an episode in the Player-­heroes’ lives. 
Moreover, important events involving the Company will even-
tually find their rightful place in the game’s Tale of Years, 
alongside the historical facts which make up the Twilight of 
the Third Age.
CURRENT SEASON
The passing of the seasons is a powerful descriptive tool. 
Across the twelve months of the year, the Free Peoples respect 
seasonal festivals and ceremonies, and the landscape of 
Middle-­earth changes drastically from summer to autumn, 
and from winter to spring, providing a backdrop to the deeds 
of the Player-­heroes that is always different.
The Loremaster can add flavour to the game by simply 
keeping a calendar, and reflecting the changes as the seasons 
pass. But seasons have a direct effect on the gameplay too — 
climbing a mountain in winter poses a more serious challenge 
than doing so in spring, as trails disappear and wolves prowl 
the land in search of food. The mountains themselves appear 
to heed a more sinister call when their passes are thick with 
snow, and the winds rage around their peaks (it is for good 
reason that a Company generally prefers to sit out the win-
ter months in the warmth and safety of a Fellow­ship Phase).
CURRENT YEAR: There is nothing like taking into consider-
ation the passage of time to make the players feel part of a 
living world — year after year, the intertwining of the Com-
pany’s deeds and the events related in the stories and their 
chronologies creates a campaign with depth and texture.
There are many ways to incorporate wider events into the 
Player-­heroes’ adventures. They could witness a great gather-
ing, cross paths with groups involved in the timeline events 
or discuss the goings-­on with the people they encounter on 
their Journey. Every Adventuring Phase can benefit greatly 
from making the Company’s exploits part of the chronol-
ogy of Middle-­earth, provided that the focus of the narration 
remains firmly fixed on the Player-­heroes’ own deeds.
where?
Where is the action taking place? There are two answers to this 
question — either a precise location is vital to the action, and 
the Loremaster chooses a specific place from those described 
in this guide or in the source material (see also Landmarks, 
on page 221), or the adventure requires nothing more than 
a generic setting and any ruin, forest glade or river will do. 
In either case, the Loremaster should consider a place 
that is either close to the current location of the Company, 
or one that they can reach conveniently (using the Journey 
rules). In the latter case, the trip itself gives the Loremaster 
the chance to set up a challenging situation for the Company.
EXPLORING MIDDLE-­EARTH
Every so often, their adventures will bring the Company to 
one of the places described in Tolkien’s books. For many 
players, this is what roleplaying in Middle-­earth is all about. 
Having the Company enter the Hall of Fire in Rivendell for 
the first time, or seeing the White Tower of Elostirion on the 
horizon, can turn an ordinary Adventuring Phase into a par-
ticularly meaningful experience. 
When this happens, the Loremaster should allow the Com-
pany to interact with the setting. What players remember of a 
place they have read about should be brought to life and incor-
porated into the narrative. One way to achieve this is to challenge 
their Skills with some simple tests. For example, a Company 
crossing the Trollshaws in the east of Eriador and passing a roll 
of SCAN might locate the glade where three Stone-­trolls stand, 
forever frozen in their stupor at having been tricked by a Wizard. 
what?
What is going on? This question defines the heart of the 
Adventuring Phase, and summarises the information that a 
Loremaster presents to the players at the beginning of the 
first game session. 

KEEPING IT THEMATIC
A simple way to start out on the right foot with a The 
One Ring campaign is to pay tribute to the source mate-
rial at the very beginning. This is a quick and easy way 
to establish the right atmosphere, showing players that 
they really are in Middle-­earth now. 
To do so, the Loremaster can propose rumours and 
story hooks that reference the stories directly in a way 
that the players will easily recognise. For example, they 
may choose a chapter title from either The Hobbit or The 
Lord of the Rings, and be a little creative with it, always 
trying to weave in a level of personal investment. 
Here are some examples:
	
♦The Shadow of the Past. The first meeting of the 
Company is observed by, or has been organised by, 
their main Patron. Otherwise, an old letter from a 
relative who disappeared a long time ago involves 
the Company in a larger scheme of events.
	
♦There and Back Again. The Company uncovers a 
rumour about a long-­lost place, item or treasure 
hoard that a renowned character from the stories 
tried to reclaim a long time ago and failed.
	
♦Over Hill and Under Hill. The session starts with the 
Company already on a Journey, travelling to reach a 
place connected to one of the heroes.
	
♦A Knife in the Dark. A safe place, such as the inn 
where the Company meets, turns dangerous as an 
agent of the Shadow attempts to murder one of the 
Player-­heroes.
	
♦Riddles in the Dark. The Company encounters a dark, 
ancient creature they heard about as a folk tale in 
their homelands.
CHAPTER 9
208

THE WORLD
209
Sometimes, this is summarised by a rumour that the Com-
pany has gathered during the last Fellow­ship Phase (see page 
121), but can otherwise be something tied to what happened 
in a previous Adventuring Phase — travellers talk of a strange 
luminescence they see while on the North Road; word of a 
stolen treasure and the reward offered to recover it reaches 
the inn at Bree; an important personality the Company was 
scheduled to meet is kidnapped or killed by an unknown 
threat. Any situation pointing the Player-­heroes in the right 
direction on their path to adventure is a good starting point. 
Another way is to begin an Adventuring Phase with a 
direct challenge — something that provokes the Company 
into action right from the start. There’s no need to plan 
a complete series of events, as the Company will provide 
enough material for the Loremaster to improvise upon as 
the game progresses. 
SIMPLICITY
The objective of an Adventuring Phase doesn’t have to be tied 
to an epic endeavour, or be about a world-­threatening men-
ace — at least, not every time. In The One Ring, an epic level of 
gameplay is reached by playing through many smaller events 
that reveal their greater significance only when woven together. 
In time, everything a Player-­hero endures will be easily raised 
to a greater importance, especially when set against the game’s 
overarching motif — the struggle against the Shadow.
For example, simply picking a worthy opponent from 
Chapter 8, or an interesting location from this chapter will pro-
vide the Loremaster and the Company with enough material 
to keep the game going for multiple sessions. 
PLOT TWISTS: Once in a while the Loremaster might decide 
to complicate things by adding a twist or two to an otherwise 
straightforward Adventuring Phase. The Company will then 
have to figure out how to ‘solve’ a situation, instead of simply 
being asked to endure or overcome a series of difficulties. 
In some cases, the Adventuring Phase might end without 
providing a clear answer; this opens up an opportunity to 
investigate the matter further during the Fellow­ship Phase 
which follows, or during a subsequent Adventuring Phase.
why?
Why should the Player-­heroes get involved in the current 
events in the first place? Is there something that interests 
them personally? This question directly addresses the reasons 
why the members of the Company choose to become adven-
turers — heroes brave dangers that other individuals try to 
stay clear of, usually because they have a personal stake that 
pushes them to do it. While the very concept of adventuring 
provides a simple answer to the question, the Loremaster 
should focus on those motivational ‘buttons’ which are far 
more effective in capturing the players’ interest.
During the first few games, the Callings and Distinctive 
Features of the Player-­heroes composing the Company can 
provide enough material to build upon. Once each member 
of the Company has a number of entries in their personal 
Tale of Years it will become much easier to find personal 
reasons for them to get involved in an Adventuring Phase. 
As the game progresses, the players themselves will start to 
explore their individual goals, and provide the Loremaster 
with personalised story hooks. 
who?
Tolkien has populated his stories with a multitude of memora-
ble characters, and the Loremaster will need to do the same 
for an adventure to be successful. Will one or more familiar 
personalities feature in the story? Will the adventure intro-
duce a new recurring character? The personalities that the 
Loremaster controls are a fundamental element of any game, 
as much as any other feature of Middle-­earth. 
ROLE MODELS
The deeds of a familiar character can be a powerful inspi-
ration for a player looking for an example of what it means 
to live in Middle-­earth. Meeting their favourite hero helps 
players to integrate into the epic tapestry of the campaign, 
adding as it does an additional layer of involvement in the 
events that the Company is witnessing. 
SUPPORTING CAST
Loremaster characters should be used sparingly and with care-
ful judgement. Players don’t like to see their Player-­heroes 
play second fiddle to a powerful individual. To avoid this, 
the Loremaster could try the opposite — have the famous 
character in need of the Player-­heroes’ help, or even need 
rescuing outright (a twist that Tolkien himself often utilised).
PATRONS
During play, the Company may adopt an important personal-
ity as their Patron. This provides an excellent source of story 
hooks and support, and is an easy way to make a familiar hero 
a recurring motif in the Company’s adventuring. However, 
the Loremaster must make sure that a Patron is not simply 
reduced to a gameplay asset; instead they should be worked 
into the narrative as an active element. 
The Patrons section on page 212 contains several sugges-
tions on how to introduce important characters as Patrons 
in the game.


 
 
APPENDIX
“But great though his lore may be, it must have a source.”

APPENDIX
212
he following sections contain information on a 
variety of topics — Patrons presents biograph-
ical data and rules concerning many wise or 
otherwise distinguished individuals living at 
the end of the Third Age and suited to become allies of 
the Company; Nameless Things gives gaming substance to 
ancient horrors that can become formidable opponents of 
the Player-­heroes; Landmarks discusses one of the main 
ways that The One Ring presents playable material, includ-
ing The Star of the Mist, a full example of the new format.
patrons
“And now,” said the wizard, turning back to Frodo, 
“the decision lies with you. But I will always help you.”
As seen on page 52, in the course of their adventures the 
Player-­heroes will sooner or later encounter others who, like 
them, oppose the encroaching Shadow. Among them are 
Men, Elves, and Dwarves, even Hobbits, who started to fight 
the Enemy long before them, and are actively seeking worthy 
allies to join in their fight. 
Whenever a Company makes the acquaintance of such an 
individual, they might adopt them as their Patron. A Com-
pany typically encounters a potential Patron during play, in 
the course of an Adventuring Phase. 
In time, the Player-­heroes are bound to meet several such 
individuals throughout their career, but may designate only 
one of them as their main Patron at any time — a Com-
pany enjoys exclusively the Fellow­ship Bonus and advantages 
related to the Patron they choose as their main one.
The Player-­heroes designate their main Patron when 
they are in the same place as the selected individ-
ual during a Fellow­ship Phase, by choosing the Meet 
Patron Undertaking (see page 121).
The following section presents some of the most influential 
individuals living at the end of the Third Age who may act 
as Patrons for the Company. 
 
Balin, son of Fundin
…there was a very old-­looking dwarf on the step with a 
white beard and a scarlet hood; and he too hopped inside 
as soon as the door was open, just as if he had been invited. 
Born in the year 2763 of the Third Age, Balin is the eldest 
son of Fundin, one of Durin’s Folk. He and his younger 
brother Dwalin are of royal blood, as they count King 
Náin II among their ancestors. A venerable Dwarf, Balin 
has seen much, including the death of too many allies and 
dear friends. He fought the Orcs when his father died 
defending Moria, was there when Thráin disappeared in 
Mirkwood, and was with Thorin Oakenshield on the quest 
that ended with the liberation of Erebor and the death of 
the Dragon.
For decades, Balin was Thorin’s counsellor, and now 
serves Dáin Ironfoot, the King Under the Mountain. One 
of Dáin’s most trusted officers, he is an adventurer at 
heart, and rarely remains at court for long periods of time. 
Despite his status among his kin, he is surprisingly humble 
and polite. While still doughty, Balin’s age is beginning to 
show. He sometimes mutters to himself and dodders as if 
every day of his years press upon him. 

Appendix
213
BALIN SON OF FUNDIN: Adventurer, Envoy
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Eager, Honourable 
ENCOUNTERING BALIN
According to his nature as a wanderer and his duty as a 
messenger of Dáin, Balin is often on the road, travelling 
across Wilderland and Eriador. He sometimes journeys 
with Gandalf, to suit his own or the Wizard’s purposes. 
Balin enjoys his visits to the Shire to see his dear old 
friend Bilbo Baggins, and out of a general fondness for 
Hobbits and their excellent hospitality. He also goes to 
the Blue Mountains regularly, to work with the Dwarves 
residing there. 
Balin is unusually woodcrafty for a Dwarf, adept at 
tracking, fire-­making, and pathfinding. He often serves 
as a lookout and takes pride in his acute sight. Balin 
knows well the regions he traverses when he journeys 
from Erebor to the Blue Mountains, having made the trip 
several times, though he prefers not to cross Mirkwood, 
even to this day. 
One might encounter Balin in a small inn along the 
way between Erebor and the Blue Mountains, camping 
in the wild near the road, or sharing a pipe with old 
friends. He is generous to a fault, kind of spirit, and easily 
the wisest and best of those who reclaimed the Lonely 
Mountain. He may accompany a group of adventurers if 
their purposes align, or even for a while if they are going 
roughly in the same direction. 
BALIN AS A PATRON
Unlike many Dwarves, Balin is genuinely interested in other 
folks and takes kindly to Hobbits especially. Of the Dwarves 
of Thorin’s Company, Balin is the only one still associating 
with Gandalf long after the death of Smaug, as he shares 
the Wizard’s concern about the growing Shadow. 
In addition to that, Balin aims to restore the strength 
and prominence of the Dwarves in Eriador, whether 
through direct action, or by setting into motion agents 
who might affect the change he wishes to see. Like all his 
folk, he hates Orcs and their ilk, and seeks in every way 
to drive them back wherever he can. His adventuring has 
made him wiser and more cautious though, and he often 
counsels patience and observation as a tactic, versus rash 
or violent action.
Balin is eager to know anything that can be learned 
regarding Dwarf-­holds fallen to the Enemy, and actively 
encourages his allies to scout those places or rid them of 
any foul denizens therein. In particular, Balin is interested 
to find out all he can about Moria, where his father was 
slain. Together with two of his fellow survivors of Thorin’s 
company — Ori and Óin — he speaks often about entering 
Khazad-­dûm and exploring it. So far, King Dáin of Erebor 
has cautioned them against such an endeavour, though it 
is clear that they are not to be dissuaded. 
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: +1
 ADVANTAGE: Balin’s Counsel
You can spend Fellow­ship points to make a combat roll 
Favoured.
 
Bilbo Baggins
… he looked and behaved exactly like a second edition 
of his solid and comfortable father, got something a bit 
queer in his make-­up from the Took side, something that 
only waited for a chance to come out. 
In the year 2965, Bilbo is a vigorous Hobbit — At seventy-­
five he is very much the same as he was at fifty, at the 
time of his remarkable disappearance and surprising 
return. On the surface, the son of Bungo Baggins and 

APPENDIX
214
Belladonna Took is a prime example of a respectable 
Hobbit. He is a great lover of pipe-­weed, good food, 
and fine waistcoats, and lives in one of the coziest 
Hobbit-­holes in the Shire. But this is not all there is to 
Mr Baggins. 
Bilbo’s unexpected journey with Thorin Oakenshield 
and company changed him profoundly, setting him 
apart from his fellow countrymen. Perhaps that adven-
ture provided a spark that ignited his Tookish and more 
adventurous side, and he certainly returned from Erebor 
a wealthier Hobbit. All this estranged him from much 
of the (admittedly tedious) Shire society, leading him 
to focus on his own, peculiar lifestyle, the company of 
friends, and working on his diary. 
Twenty years after his great adventure, Bilbo remains 
curious about news from outside the Shire, and is always 
gathering rumours and bits of lore to add to his per-
sonal records — he is planning to turn his private diary 
into a real book. 
BILBO BAGGINS: Retired adventurer, Burglar
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Fair-­spoken, Cunning 
ENCOUNTERING BILBO
The Bagginses have lived in the neighbourhood of The Hill 
from time out of mind, and Bilbo has no desire to break that 
long-­standing tradition. His address is at Bag End, Underhill, 
Hobbiton, and it’s at Bag End that the Hobbit is likely to be 
found, probably having tea, or standing at the door, smoking 
a pipe. That said, his experiences with Thorin’s Company and 
a Dragon have awakened in him a certain appetite for adven-
ture, and sometimes he stays away from home for much longer 
than is considered appropriate in the Shire. When travelling 
further away than Buckland, or Michel Delving, he is often 
in the company of Dwarves.
If encountered outside the Shire, Bilbo might carry 
his Elf-­dagger, Sting, sheathed at his side. But he has yet to 
encounter a danger that might require him to use it — if 
threatened, the Hobbit displays an uncanny ability to disap-
pear almost instantly, a talent far outstripping the normal 
Hobbitish affinity for escaping notice. He always remembers 
to bring a pocket-­handkerchief along.
BILBO AS A PATRON
Unbeknownst to his fellow Hobbits who just consider him to 
be strange, if not completely mad, Bilbo knows a lot about 
the world outside the Shire, and is well aware of its dangers. 
He keeps himself as informed as he can, exchanging tidings 
BILBO’S MAGIC RING 
Bilbo found many valuable things in the course 
of his last adventure, but the greatest treasure 
he brought back is one he doesn’t know much 
about. It’s the magic ring he found in an under-
ground cave, under the Misty Mountains, and that 
he has kept a great secret. To him, it’s a precious 
commodity, as wearing it makes him invisible — a 
quality that Bilbo finds invaluable when unpleas-
ant callers come looking for him. 
This ring has been in Bilbo’s possession for 
more than twenty years now, and what in the 
beginning seemed nothing more than a curios-
ity to the Hobbit is slowly developing a growing 
hold over his mind. He keeps it in the pocket of his 
waistcoat upon a fine silver chain at all times, and 
has acquired the habit of slipping a finger or two 
in the pocket to touch it, as if to reassure himself 
that it’s still there. 

Appendix
215
with travellers and by writing and receiving letters. When he 
learns about potential threats that might affect the Shire, he 
does what he can to enlist the help of anyone who might do 
something about it. 
Being a Hobbit of considerable means, Bilbo is all too 
happy to arrange hospitality, finance expeditions, and to gen-
erally encourage those who would dare to go out and have 
adventures. He provides support merely in return for a good 
story and perhaps a souvenir or keepsake — he is especially 
interested in maps, and geographical lore in general, which 
he uses to amend his own charts.
Contrary to this inclination towards hosting a veritable 
rogues gallery of guests from far afield, he is growing increas-
ingly isolated when it comes to his fellow Hobbits. He finds 
them staid, close-­minded, and demonstrates little patience for 
their shenanigans and petty foibles. To the eyes of the Shire-­
folk, Bilbo is becoming more and more an eccentric recluse.
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: +2
 ADVANTAGE: Bilbo’s Hospitality
By choosing the Meet Patron undertaking to visit Bilbo 
you additionally raise the Fellow­ship rating by +1 until 
the next Fellow­ship Phase.
 
Círdan the Shipwright
As they came to the gates Círdan the Shipwright came forth 
to greet them. Very tall he was, and his beard was long, and 
he was grey and old, save that his eyes were keen as stars…
Círdan is perhaps the most ancient Elf still living in Middle-­
earth. He has witnessed three ages of the world, and has 
been given many titles. Today, he is mostly known as the 
Shipwright, and the Master of the Grey Havens. He is 
accounted among the Wise and the Great, and has served 
as a member of the White Council for many long centuries. 
For a time, he was the keeper of one of the three Elven Rings 
of Power, for he bore Narya, the Ring of Fire, until he gave 
it to Gandalf the Grey. 
Círdan is currently the chief of all Elves residing west of 
the Blue Mountains, in Lindon. He has been leading them 
since Gil-­galad died fighting Sauron in the War of the Last 
Alliance. Many consider him to possess the greatest gift of 
foresight, and thus to be able to see further and deeper 
than any other in Middle-­earth. That is perhaps why the 
task of preparing the ships that all Elves board when leaving 
Middle-­earth to cross the sea to Valinor is appointed to him. 
CÍRDAN THE SHIPWRIGHT: Emissary, Lore-­master
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Courteous, Lordly, Wise 

APPENDIX
216
 ENCOUNTERING CÍRDAN
Círdan dwells with his people at the great port of Mithlond, 
on the banks of the Gulf of Lune. He rarely ventures forth 
from the Grey Havens, but all who are of good spirit and 
come in peace are welcome to come and see him there. 
Galdor of the Havens is his herald and envoy, and often 
travels across Middle-­earth representing the Shipwright 
wherever needed, and speaking with his full authority.
In person, Círdan is very tall, even for an Elf. His 
appearance is that of a grey but vigorous individual, with 
a long, silver beard, a rarity among the Fair Folk. He is gra-
cious and hospitable, receiving all guests with full courtesy 
and kindness. His bright eyes are keen, yet profound — If 
anyone was to look into them for a few moments, they 
would see a deep well of memory and experience, telling 
of the countless things that Círdan has accomplished over 
his long lifetime. 
CÍRDAN AS A PATRON
Círdan knows that the Grey Havens play a role of primary 
importance in the war against the Shadow. The Five Wizards 
landed here when they came to Middle-­earth almost two 
thousand years ago, and it is here that many great fleets 
armed for the defeat of Sauron found safe harbourage. In 
the twilight of the Third Age, Mithlond serves as the last 
refuge for those who desire to leave Middle-­earth, and Círdan 
considers it his duty to ensure that their passage is made as 
safely as possible. 
The Grey Havens also guard a great wealth of knowl-
edge. Círdan’s memory goes back to a time before the light 
of the Sun and Moon, and his knowledge rivals that of Elrond, 
greatest of lore-­masters. The Lord of the Havens and that of 
Imladris seek the counsel of one another, and their messen-
gers can be often found on the great East Road on errands 
from their masters. 
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: +1
 ADVANTAGE: The Shipwright’s Foresight
You can spend Fellow­ship points to repeat any one roll.
By choosing the Meet Patron undertaking to go and 
see Círdan you additionally receive a rumour from the 
Loremaster. 
THE ELENDIL STONE
Círdan and the Elves of Lindon guard one of the 
seven “seeing stones” brought to Middle-­earth 
from Númenor by Elendil. It is locked away in 
the tower of Elostirion, in the Tower Hills. Also 
known as a palantír, this stone is a perfectly 
smooth globe, made of a dark, glassy mate-
rial, about a foot in diameter. According to old 
lore, the palantíri allowed their owners to see 
things from a distance, and could communi-
cate with each other. Only few among the Wise 
know whether the Elendil Stone is still capable 
of revealing any vision, as the other stones are 
deemed lost, or destroyed. 

Appendix
217
 
Gandalf the Grey
At the end of the second week in September a cart came 
in through Bywater from the direction of the Brandywine 
Bridge in broad daylight. An old man was driving it all 
alone. He wore a tall pointed blue hat, a long grey cloak, 
and a silver scarf.
To the Hobbits of the Shire, Gandalf the Grey is just a pil-
grim, a wanderer without a home. He says he’s a Wizard, 
but the extent of his magical skill seems to be limited to 
his wonderful fireworks and to the prodigious smoke-­
rings he produces with his pipe. But the wanderings of 
Gandalf have brought him much farther than his beloved 
Shire, to lands where he is known by different names: to 
the Elves he is Mithrandir, Tharkûn is how the Dwarves 
know him, and Men in the South call him Gandalf Grey-
hame. In these countries, Gandalf is not always welcome 
— indeed, some call him a bringer of ill-­news, as he often 
comes when a threat is near.
In truth, Gandalf is the greatest enemy of Sauron 
in the Third Age. Few among the Wise know that the 
Wizards first came to Middle-­earth out of the Utter-
most West almost two thousand years ago, on a mis-
sion to thwart the Dark Lord’s machinations. Gandalf's 
appointed task is to bolster the hearts of those who 
would fight against evil everywhere, and that’s what he 
has done for centuries now, counseling Dwarves, Elves, 
and Men, always bringing light where darkness lies. 
Gandalf is the secret bearer of Narya, the Ring of Fire, 
the third Elven-­ring created by Celebrimbor of Eregion. 
It was given to him for safekeeping and for his own use 
by Círdan the Shipwright. Narya is an invaluable aid to 
Gandalf in his mission to inspire others in their struggles 
against the Shadow. If pressed into combat, the Grey 
Pilgrim unsheaths Glamdring, an ancient Elven blade, 
forged in Gondolin for the Goblin-­wars. 
GANDALF THE GREY: Adventurer, Wizard
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Bold, Cunning, Wise 
ENCOUNTERING GANDALF
Gandalf can be encountered almost anywhere — riding 
across the countryside on horseback, walking alone or in 
the company of friends or allies, or even in the seat of a 
horse-­drawn cart. He may not show up when called but often 
appears when needed. Gandalf holds a particular fondness 
for the Hobbits of the Shire and when he is meeting some-
one in Eriador, he will always choose the inn in Bree as a 
meeting place. 
When encountered along the road, the Grey Wizard may 
appear just as an old man, with a long white beard and car-
rying a staff that he sometimes leans upon as he walks. But 
when he sits in council, his white hair and piercing dark eyes 
make him look like a wise king from some ancient legend.
Gandalf does not resort to using magic lightly, as he fears 
it would betray his presence to the eyes of the Enemy. When 
he does, he displays a mastery of fire and smoke, a reflection 
of his personality. Seemingly irascible, the old Wizard is also 
just as quick to burst into warm laughter. He might gently 
chide a friend, offer words of reassurance, then wax wroth 
at those who fail to show him due respect. 
GANDALF AS A PATRON
Once, Círdan of the Havens said that the Grey Wanderer’s 
mission is to ‘rekindle hearts in a world that grows chill’. In 
accordance with this mandate, Gandalf labours to inspire 
all individuals into action, and set events in motion that will 
eventually spiral into greater consequences. The Quest of 

APPENDIX
218
Erebor is an example of how Gandalf acts — helping Thorin 
Oakenshield to reclaim his lost kingdom led to the elimina-
tion of a Dragon that could have become a terrible weapon 
in the hands of the Enemy.
Unlike the head of his order, Saruman, who deals in 
devices and instruments from his high tower in Isengard, 
Gandalf moves among those who oppose Sauron, listening 
to their pleas and providing help when emergencies occur. 
This has made Gandalf welcome in most places, despite his 
reputation as a troublemaker. 
A member of the White Council, Gandalf is the one 
among the Wise that is most likely to act promptly. While 
the others may counsel patience and caution, Gandalf moves 
decisively, putting himself in danger, infiltrating the lairs of 
the Enemy, and facing evil without hesitation. His goal is to 
lead the Free Peoples by example, encouraging them to set 
aside ancient rivalries and petty disputes, and to work together 
in defence of all that is good and worth keeping.
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: +2
 ADVANTAGE: The Wisdom of the Grey Pilgrim
You can spend Fellow­ship points to make a Shadow Test 
Favoured.
 
Gilraen the Fair
After a few years Gilraen took leave of Elrond and 
returned to her own people in Eriador, and lived alone…
A woman of noble lineage, Gilraen is the mother of 
Aragorn, the current chieftain of the Rangers of the 
North and Heir of Isildur. She was quite young when she 
married, and became a widow soon after she gave birth 
to her son. When that came to pass, Elrond took her and 
her newborn to dwell with him in Rivendell, and he raised 
Aragorn as a son of his own — Aragorn was called ‘Estel’ 
in Imladris (Sindarin for ‘Hope’), to conceal his lineage 
and true name from his enemies. 
In the year 2965, Gilraen is not yet sixty years old. 
Being one of the long lived Dúnedain, she is in the ful-
ness of her strength of body and mind, and possesses a 
measure of the foresight of her people. When her son 
left Rivendell to seek adventure a few years ago, Gilraen 
decided to remain in Imladris. She often leaves the Last 
Homely House on short trips, to visit her own people in 
Eriador and confer with the captains of the Rangers of 
the North, in the absence of their chieftain. 
GILRAEN THE FAIR: Counselor, Seer
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Cautious, Fair, Steadfast 
ENCOUNTERING GILRAEN
Gilraen is accorded great respect among the Dúnedain 
of Eriador as the widow of Arathorn, their previous chief-
tain, and as the mother of the Heir of Isildur. She is 
also deemed to be foresighted, having inherited that gift 
from Ivorwen, her mother. Many captains of the Rangers 
seek her advice, knowing her to be a wise and prudent 
counselor. 
Anyone who meets her will find Gilraen to be a tall and 
slender woman, her demeanour marked by sorrow, but who 
refuses to be bent under the weight of her misfortune. 

Appendix
219
Gilraen can be met in the company of small bands of 
Rangers, along the many paths trod by her folk in the vicinity 
of Rivendell, or in the Weather Hills and the North Downs. 
She never stays away for more than a few weeks at a time 
though, always returning to the safety of the house of Elrond 
to rest. 
GILRAEN AS A PATRON
Having lost her husband Arathorn to an Orc-­arrow, and his 
father Arador to the ferocity of Hill-­trolls in the Coldfells, 
Gilraen has experienced personally the hatred of the Enemy 
for her folk. She knows full well that the Dúnedain of the 
North and the entire region of Eriador will never be safe 
if evil creatures are allowed to prowl undisturbed. In the 
absence of her son the chieftain, Gilraen makes sure that 
the Rangers don’t forsake their duty as guardians of the 
land of old Arnor and the borders of the Bree-­land and the 
Shire. In this, she has found a staunch ally in the Wizard 
Gandalf. When she is in Rivendell, she never misses a chance 
to encourage the sons of Elrond to go out and hunt all 
monstrous creatures. 
Adventurers worthy of Gilraen’s trust find themselves 
enjoying the respect of the Rangers of the North. When 
out in the wild, they can count on the help of many scouts, 
and are provided directions to find their hidden refuges 
and caches of supplies. 
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: 0
 ADVANTAGE: Gilraen’s Folk
As long as you are within the territory that once was the 
old realm of Arnor, all Journey Events are determined as 
if you were in a Border Land.
By choosing the Meet Patron undertaking to go and 
see Gilraen you additionally receive a rumour from the 
Loremaster. 
 
Tom Bombadil and Lady Goldberry
‘Tom Bombadil is the Master. No one has ever caught old 
Tom walking in the forest, wading in the water, leaping 
on the hill-­tops under light and shadow. He has no fear. 
Tom Bombadil is master.’
Old Tom Bombadil roamed all over Eriador, when the 
woods that today are called the Old Forest reached 
Dunland in the south. As the forest shrunk, so did his 
domain. He is a strange creature, known by many names — 
to the Elves he is Iarwain Ben-­adar (‘oldest and fatherless’), 
a name that attempts to define him. For he is ancient even 
for the long-­lived Elves, and they don’t know whence he 
came. He was there before the Dark Lord arrived, he 
welcomed the first rivers and trees, and his life is tied 
inextricably to that of his land. 
Tom appears as a red-­cheeked man with curly brown 
hair, wrinkles around his eyes etched deep from mirth, 
usually clad in a blue coat and yellow boots. He is often 
engaged in seemingly frivolous activities, like picking 
water-­lilies, as if he hasn’t a care in the whole of Middle-­
earth. In truth, the opposite is true: Tom cares about all 
living things, so much so that he cannot distinguish the 
worth of one life over another. 
Bombadil shares his life with Goldberry, the River-­
woman’s daughter. She is a lady as fair as an Elf-­maiden, 
and she is as enigmatic as her companion. Just standing 
in her presence provokes a marvelous delight in those 
who enter the house of Tom Bombadil, a joy that is felt 
deeply in their hearts.
TOM BOMBADIL: The Master
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Absent-­minded, Merry
GOLDBERRY: River-­daughter
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES: Fair, Fair-­spoken 
ENCOUNTERING TOM AND GOLDBERRY
The house of Tom Bombadil is found just beyond the Old 
Forest to the east, where the Withywindle runs down from 
its spring in the Barrow-­downs. Under Tom’s roof and at his 
table, guests will find their heart contented with peaceful 
slumber, fine company, joyous song, and all the simple plea-
sures that come with a humble heart. 
Bombadil is known to journey into the Old Forest and 
the Barrow-­downs, having no fear of Old Man Willow nor the 
Wight-­haunted hills. With a laugh and a wink, Tom charms 
all he encounters, singing the fierce to sleep and rousing the 
rest with a song and a merry dance. 
Goldberry can be found anywhere along the course of the 
Withywindle, braiding daisies or water-­lilies, or singing to the 
gurgling waters. She acts as if there is no menace in the world 
worth her concern, as she knows that Tom will come running 
if ever she needs him. The two are friendly to strangers but 

APPENDIX
220

Appendix
221
are no less strange to their friends, and they open their doors 
to any who they meet. 
TOM AND GOLDBERRY AS PATRONS
Though Tom’s power is as deep as the earth is old, his mas-
tery seems to be limited to his little land, within bounds 
that he has set. Within those bounds he fears nothing, and 
he is seemingly unconquerable, but he won’t step beyond 
them for any reason. Adventurers winning his friendship 
and that of Goldberry will find that when called, they 
appear almost instantly anywhere within their domain. 
Even the weather itself seems to behave according to their 
needs and whims. 
Tom knows all the ways and the lore of the Old Forest, 
and he can speak at length about all manner of such things, 
for there is little in his realm that he does not understand 
fully. He tells many remarkable stories, speaking softly or 
even singing, inspiring strange flights of fancy, vistas of 
untold history and of things forgotten, both majestic and 
meager. 
Tom asks little of his friends directly, but he might 
point them in the direction of a problem that needs solv-
ing, whether it’s an unruly Wight from the Barrow-­downs 
or a calf lost within the Old Forest. Goldberry seems to 
have no need of anything beyond what she has, but she 
might call upon a Company of well-­meaning heroes to aid 
others in need. 
FELLOW­SHIP BONUS: +2
 ADVANTAGE: Master of Wood, Water and Hill
You can spend all your remaining Fellow­ship to call Tom 
or Goldberry’s intervention anywhere in Tom’s country.
landmarks
Not far ahead were dreary hills, rising higher and higher, dark with trees. On some of them 
were old castles with an evil look, as if they had been built by wicked people.
A look at the map of Eriador shows how northwestern Middle-­
earth is a vast region, seemingly empty for the most part. 
What the map cannot reveal is the long history of this area, 
the borders of the many kingdoms that rose and fell in cen-
turies long past. 
The land still bears many traces of that long history — 
ruins dot the countryside, broken towers and walls that the 
current denizens of Eriador use as landmarks to find their 
bearings, or to delineate the boundaries of their fields, or 
even quarry to build their modest houses. 
But many more hide under the tall grass, or lie buried 
under dirt accumulated over countless years. Some are known 
and shunned, and even more have not been visited by the 
living in centuries.
there and back again
In the course of the game, the Player-­heroes learn of the exis-
tence of landmarks by gathering rumours, small snippets of leg-
ends and hearsay, speaking of frightening creatures and hidden 
treasure (see Gather Rumours, page 121). When they decide to 
explore them during an Adventuring Phase, the Loremaster uses 
the rules for Journeys to get the Company there, and then refers 
to the description of the landmark to play out its exploration. 
In brief, landmarks allow the players and the Loremas-
ter to play open-­ended, self-­contained scenarios, complete 
with the description of locations, denizens, and events. What 
that they don’t provide is a predetermined plot, articulated 
in orderly scenes. 
Loremasters can design their own landmarks using the 
guidelines in this chapter, but complete landmarks are 
included in supplements for the game. 
The Star in the Mist, the section starting on page 223, is 
an example of a fully-­developed landmark.
structure of landmarks
All landmarks presented for the game will follow the same 
structure of presentation. Loremasters can use this informa-
tion to create their own adventure locations.
1. NAME
Generally, this is the name that local superstition or legend gives 
the place (‘Deadmen’s Dike’, ‘Norbury of the Kings’, ‘Moria’, etc.)

APPENDIX
222
2. RUMOUR
A rumour is the piece of information about the place that 
the Player-­heroes pick up while adventuring or during 
the Fellow­ship Phase. It might contain a mix of true 
and false information, filtered through local prejudices, 
superstitions, etc. 
OLD LORE: Further information available to Player-­heroes 
who research the landmark, while adventuring or during the 
Fellow­ship Phase. Generally, Old Lore has more precise and 
truthful information.
3. BACKGROUND
This is an overview of the place for the Loremaster, summa-
rizing its main features and relating why it is interesting or 
dangerous. 
It should include general directions on how to get there 
starting from a known place (‘three days north of Amon Sûl’), 
but no information about how to get there in game terms is 
presented — for that, the Loremaster needs simply to use the 
rules for Journeys.
JOURNEY EVENTS: This section relates information useful 
to set up potential accidents or other noteworthy events 
that might occur when the Company is approaching the 
landmark. 
4. MAP
A drawing illustrating the landmark in as much detail as pos-
sible. It may be a map or cutout, always keyed to the descrip-
tions given in the Locations section.
A NOTE ABOUT RULES PRESENTATION IN LANDMARKS
Landmarks offer descriptions that are as simple and to 
the point as possible. The text assumes that the Loremas-
ter is able to direct the Adventuring Phase conforming to 
the decisions of the playing group, and able to adjudi-
cate all situations simply applying the rules as presented 
in the game.
For example, this means that if a landmark requires 
the Company to travel many miles to reach it, the Lor-
emaster will set up a scene using the Journey rules 
— without the text of the landmark addressing this 
specifically. 
Likewise, if the description of a landmark confronts 
the Player-­heroes with an obstacle, for example a sheer 
tower to climb, the Loremaster will set up a scene using 
the rules that apply best to the situation — for exam-
ple, those for Skill Endeavours, Risk levels, or Sources 
of Injury. 
As an exception to this rule, the sample landmark 
presented in the following pages provides an additional 
level of description, as far as the rules are concerned, for 
the sake of illustrating the concept. These suggestions 
are presented under the ‘Tutorial’ heading.
5. LOCATIONS
A number of paragraphs describing the place in detail, 
including information on Treasure, or potential encoun-
ters with denizens and Loremaster characters. Some encoun-
ters may be connected to the Schemes and Trouble section.
6. SCHEMES AND TROUBLE
This final section describes how external forces can interfere 
with the exploration of the site. Also, here are listed poten-
tial self-­contained events and accidents that may occur in the 
course of the Adventuring Phase. 
Sometimes, this section contains information potentially 
tying a landmark to a greater picture, for example, including 
the schemes of a recurring villain.

Appendix
223
the star of the mist
…the Witch-­king came down upon Arthedain before winter was ended.
RUMOUR
“There’s an ancient tower in the easternmost foothills of the south-
ern Ered Luin, what remains of a powerful castle from the time of 
the Kings. Wanderers speak of an eerie blue light that sometimes 
can be seen even from Sarn Ford, like a star shining above the 
river mists. No one goes there, and recently people have started to 
disappear in its vicinity.”
OLD LORE
“The tower is what is left of a fortress built at the time of the North 
Kingdom of Arnor. It was built atop a Dwarven subterranean ruin. 
It was besieged at the time of the war with Angmar, and fell after 
a long resistance. Some say that treasonous Dwarves betrayed the 
Dúnedain, allowing the forces of the Witch-­king to enter the castle 
by secret ways.”
background
There was once a fortified town in the foothills of the south-
ern Ered Luin, in what was the kingdom of Arthedain. It had 
been built above an abandoned Dwarven city, an underground 
complex extending for miles into the roots of the mountains. 
The castle was the seat of a valorous Dúnadan lord who fiercely 
resisted the Witch-­king in the time of the wars with Angmar. 
Eventually, the fortress was put under siege, and the lord 
captured alive during a sortie. He was tortured in sight of 
the castle’s battlements, before the eyes of his spouse. She 
was a valiant warrior herself, a daughter of sea-­kings, and 
she continued to defend the castle, despite her grievous loss. 
Eventually, the stronghold fell to black treachery, and both 
the castle and the surrounding town were razed, the ruins 
cursed by the Lord of the Ringwraiths himself. The 
noblewoman was consumed by grief, and with the 
passing of the years she became a Fell Wraith, while 
her followers degenerated into horrible, almost 
deathless creatures. 
What remains of the fortress and town today is a 
tower in the midst of ruins. The area can be accessed 
only by finding the entrance to an underground 
guard post, and by a bridge crossing a narrow but 
deep ravine. 
The entrance is currently used by a band of 
brigands as their base of operations. Influenced 
by evil men from the south, they are responsible for the dis-
appearances of several wanderers in the area.
locations
Advancing towards the southern Ered Luin, the Company 
sees the distant mountains rise steadily, like a high wall lin-
ing the horizon from north to south. But even closer to 
them are mountains running away from the main range, 

APPENDIX
224
forming an eastward arm. When twilight comes, the light 
that guides them appears at the feet of that arm. It’s a land 
of bleak hills, and deep valleys filled with turbulent waters, 
running to join the river to the south. 
Once they get near, the Player-­heroes find that the tower 
they are seeking lies on the other side of a deep ravine. No 
means to traverse the chasm seem to be available — if the 
Player-­heroes scout the ravine, for example walking along 
its border, they eventually spot a broken bridge some yards 
below the edge of the fissure, the two sides joined by a make-
shift wooden ramp.
THE BRIGANDS’ CAMP
As they look for a passage across the ravine, the Player-­heroes 
find the camp of the brigands. It is located in front of a small 
cave, near the edge of the chasm. This is easily spotted, as a 
plume of smoke can be seen rising from a distance. 
The camp is garrisoned by a small group of brigands, 
composed of one Footpad for each Player-­hero (see 
page 145). The majority of the brigands are away, look-
ing for unwary travellers to rob.
The brigands look like a mix of southerners and mean-­looking 
Men of Eriador, maybe coming from Tharbad. Among them 
is a short, wiry fellow by the name of Sabian, swarthy and 
dressed in black (see page 230). When the Player-­heroes get 
close enough to the brigands’ camp, Sabian is seen emerging 
from the cave, telling the others to be alert, as ‘she is unquiet’.
TUTORIAL — MEETING THE BRIGANDS
A scene taking place at the Brigand’s Camp is likely 
to concern the Company trying to ambush the garri-
son there. The precise circumstances are going to vary 
a lot though, based on what the Player-­heroes have 
done so far. For example, the Player-­heroes might have 
encountered the brigands on their way here, and maybe 
someone escaped to tell the others of the threat the 
Company poses. The Loremaster must take what hap-
pened before into due consideration, to make this new 
scene an ideal continuation of those that preceded it.
If the scene is going to involve combat (very likely), 
then the Loremaster should remind the players how kill-
ing non-­monstrous enemies without provocation may be 
considered a Misdeed, and thus cause a Shadow gain. 
Then the Loremaster should provide a description of the 
area, trying to visualize the location and adding details 
to what has been written above. For example, a clear 
path might lead directly to the mouth of the cave, but 
that is certainly going to be in plain sight of the brig-
ands in the camp. On the contrary, less visible tracks may 
lead to the back of the cave, behind a rise allowing the 
Player-­heroes to stage a surprise attack using ranged 
weapons from superior ground, and thus giving them 
an additional ranged weapons volley. 
All the Loremaster needs to do is to ‘see’ the location 
with their mind’s eye, and be consistent in describing 
it to the players.
THE CAVE: If the Player-­heroes deal with the brigands they 
can enter the cave. Once inside, they discover that ancient 
steps cut into the rock lead underground to a stone bridge 
that once crossed the ravine. 
The bridge is now broken, but a makeshift wooden ramp 
joins the two sides. If the Company attacks the brigands with-
out denying them the ability to retreat into the cave, Sabian 
seeks refuge underground, and cuts the ropes that hold up 
the ramp, letting it fall in the seemingly bottomless crevice. 
The distance separating the two sides of the bridge seems 
too much to be jumped across, and the fall seems very dan-
gerous — a noisy stream of water runs many yards below, 
JOURNEY EVENTS
Once the Company gets to Sarn Ford, at sunset they 
spot a faint luminescence to the west, and can follow 
it easily, like a beacon. As they head in its direction, 
they can find traces of the presence of a large band 
of brigands operating in the area — they find the rem-
nants of their camps, and may even hear stories about 
them told by a lonely wanderer or two. 
If the Player-­heroes are not careful, the brigands 
may notice the Company and send a group of fighters 
to ambush them while they camp (see Schemes and Trou-
ble, on page 229). If the players are careful enough, for 
example, by following the brigands’ tracks and trying to 
stay one step ahead of them, they may be able to avoid 
them and reach their encampment without having to face 
them before that (see The Brigands’ Camp).

Appendix
225
among broken rocks. The Company will have to find a way 
to cross the chasm safely…
TUTORIAL — SETTING UP OBSTACLES
Crossing the broken bridge is a good example of those obsta-
cles that the Loremaster should use to challenge the players. 
The situation should lead them to discuss at length about how 
to overcome it — when they have declared their intentions, 
the Loremaster translates their approach into game terms. 
A few examples follow, referencing the rules used to set 
them up, just to give an idea on how to apply the rules to 
model the choice of the players:
	♦The Player-­heroes try to build a ramp — a Skill Endeavour 
certainly involving CRAFT (see Skill Endeavours, page 131);
	♦An Elf character jumps across, and then builds a rope 
bridge with the help of the others — the Elf spends 
Hope to invoke a Magical success, then everyone rolls 
ATHLETICS to get across at a Hazardous Skill level (see The 
Consequences of Failure, page 130);
	♦The Company goes down into the ravine using ropes, 
and then climbs up on the other side — one ATHLETICS 
roll each, again set at Hazardous Risk level.
THE DWARVEN GATE
This was one of the entrances that led to the Dwarven under-
ground ruin. The Men of the West made it into a guard post. 
Now, the mostly empty room is littered by debris and refuse 
left by the brigands, as they use it as their sleeping quarters 
(not daring to go deeper into the ruins). 
Player-­heroes spending time here can hear the sound of 
dripping water, and the occasional gurgling sound coming from 
the next chamber. The only door leading somewhere interesting 
is the arched gate leading to the Flooded Chambers. 
THE PANTRY: A small but deep niche on the west wall of the 
chamber was used as a pantry by the brigands. If the Player-­
heroes inspect the niche, they find that a small cache of stolen 
gold is hidden here, behind a supply of dry kindling, stale 
bread, and dried meat. 
The gold is worth a total of a Success die of Treasure 
points.
Among the gold are several personal items, that certainly 
belonged to the victims of the brigands: 
THE RUINS OF NARAG-­NÂLA
The Dwarven underground complex is a small 
part of a Dwarven domain, the city of Narag-­
nâla (Player-­heroes paying attention to the runes 
inscribed on the walls and arches of the place 
discover the name quickly). It is a dark maze of 
narrow passages, often leading to empty rooms, 
corridors blocked by fallen rocks, and half-­
collapsed halls. 
If the Player-­heroes show an interest in 
exploring the various doors opening into 
the rooms shown in the Locations maps, 
the Loremaster must improvise the descrip-
tion of a seemingly endless labyrinth, or 
simply limit their exploration by describ-
ing how most passages lead to dead ends.
But the ruins are not entirely deserted. There are 
several Dwarves yet in Narag-­nâla who still draw 
breath… (see Schemes and Trouble, page 230).
All Player-­heroes who take a share of the gold gain 1 
Shadow (Greed). 
THE FLOODED CHAMBERS
When the Player-­heroes cross the threshold leading here, 
an inexplicable sense of dread falls over them. This pillared 
hall was once a Dwarven chamber of records, that was later 
adapted by the Arnorian lords to become their Hallows. The 
survivors of the siege were buried alive here. The Witch-­king 
then flooded the area, and laid a curse on it.
The air is unwholesome, and seems thick and stuffy, 
as if a weight is gradually oppressing the Player-­
heroes — staying here causes all Player-­heroes to 
gain 2 points of Shadow (Dread).
The hall is partially collapsed, and almost completely filled 
with muddy waters, waist-­high. The walls are decorated by 
Dwarven inscriptions and carvings (Dwarves of Durin’s Folk 
recognise the art as typical of the houses that used to dwell 
in this area - probably the Firebeards). Opposite the entrance 
opens a passage leading to a flight of steps, going up to the 
surface (they lead to the Accursed Halls, see page 226). 

APPENDIX
226
A few minutes after the Company enters the Flooded 
Chambers, they notice someone, maybe a Dwarf, escaping 
into a side passage, and soon after they hear the deep toll 
of a bell. Moments later, a group of ghoulish creatures with 
sharp teeth and clawed hands emerge from the muddy waters 
of the chamber, and attack the Company! 
	
♦The Marsh-­dwellers (see page 155) number twice the 
number of Player-­heroes in the Company. 
	
♦The creatures concentrate their attacks on any Ranger 
of the North in the Company. Hobbits and Dwarves who 
confront the monsters while immersed in the waters are 
moderately hindered — they lose (1d) on all rolls. 
No one can say if these creatures are what became of the 
Dúnedain that were trapped here long ago, cursed by the 
King of Angmar, or if they are evil creatures that came here 
on his command, to haunt the ruins.
THE SEPULCHRES: In the central section of the hall are a 
series of stone sepulchres. Some are intact, while others look 
like they were damaged by violent upheavals of the earth. All 
THE FLOODED  
CHAMBERS
Staircase to the  
Accursed Halls
Staircase to  
the Cave
are carved with a skill far surpassing that of most stonewrights 
living today — that of the Men of the West. 
Two sepulchres stand out for the exquisite detail of their 
carvings. The two marble slabs are shaped to represent a sleep-
ing figure — one shows a lord and the other a lady, composed 
in the sleep of death. Both sepulchres are empty.
Inside the other tombs are buried the stewards and house-­
guards of the noble house that once ruled here. One of them 
contains the mortal remains of Angnir, the chief steward, and 
the house records, telling the story of the fallen lord. The 
text is incomplete, having been damaged by the passage of 
time. (See The House Records box nearby for the relevant 
information contained therein).
A LESSER HOARD: A small arched gate opens in the north-­
eastern corner of the chamber. Accessible easily only by 
Dwarves and Hobbits, it leads to a small room, where many 
precious things have been hoarded by the Marsh-­dwellers.
The treasure chamber contains what amounts to a 
lesser hoard (see page 158 for the rules on Treasure).
THE ACCURSED HALLS
Once they get back to the surface, the Player-­heroes emerge 
among a vast expanse of ruins, floating in a sea of dense mist. 
It is dark, regardless of the hour of the day — if morning or 
afternoon, the sun can be seen as a pale disc, incapable of 
penetrating the veil of fog.
The Dwarven 
Gate

Appendix
227
THE HOUSE RECORDS
“Here is recorded the Fall of the House of Hadirion, and 
his wife Elwen. I, Angnir, steward and captain of the 
guards, write this record to preserve its memory. It was 
in the time of …”
“They built a wooden seat, in mockery of a throne, in 
plain sight of the castle walls. Then, they tied our Lord 
Hadirion to it, to torment and ridicule him. They tortured 
him for hours … When the Orcs nailed an iron crown to 
his head, hailing Hadirion as the rightful ruler of the 
land, the Lady Elwen summoned me, and asked me 
to prove my reputation as the best bowman of Arthe-
dain. I chose an arrow from those that I received from 
my father, and he from his father before him. A white 
plumed, slender dart.”
“I bent my bow with all my strength, and the arrow 
flew straight, piercing the hand of a huge Orc who was 
tormenting Hadirion, and burying itself deep into the 
chest of my Lord. I broke my bow after the deed…”
The rest of the records chronicle the fall of the castle, 
in broken fragments — treasonous Dwarves allowed 
the enemy to enter the castle undetected. Those who 
survived the onslaught fled underground, and were 
trapped. The Lady Elwen disappeared.
THE ACCURSED HALLS
Staircase to  
the Flooded Chambers

APPENDIX
228
Advancing among the rubble is difficult — crumbling walls 
and pillars jut out from thick tangles of vegetation, and twisted 
and bare trees split ancient flagstones with their roots. Nothing 
rises for more than a few yards — the city of Lord Hadirion 
and Lady Elwen was literally razed to the ground. 
The exception to this is the Tower of the Star (see next 
page), and what appears to be an island of broken stonework, 
a cluster of ruins rising where once was a majestic palace. 
The shape of a main hall is still recognisable, a flight of wide, 
cracked steps leading to it. Its walls are covered in crude graffiti, 
probably drawn by Orcs.
Among the graffiti are mixed sentences composed using 
Elvish letters, of an ancient mode — they are written with horrible 
care, using the Black Speech, to form the curse of the Witch-­king. 
Player-­heroes who read the words gain 2 Shadow 
points (Sorcery), regardless of whether they can read 
Elvish or understand the language of Mordor. 
Whoever gains at least 1 Shadow point learns the meaning of 
the curse — it was laid by the Witch-­king of Angmar himself, 
wroth at how strongly the Dúnedain opposed him. The ruins 
are bound to suffer from its effects, as long as the torment of 
Lord Hadirion continues (see The Tower of the Star).
TUTORIAL — EXPANDING 
THE ACCURSED HALLS
The Accursed Halls are just a part of the vast ruins that once 
were a city of the Dúnedain. For the most part, they’re just 
ancient, cold stones, but who can say what lurks there, in 
the shadow of the tormented spirit of Elwen? 
If the players show an interest in exploring the place, 
the Loremaster can expand their descriptions as they see 
fit. Here follow a number of ideas that can help the Lore-
master in giving further substance to the ruins: 
	
♦An old well, covered by rotten planks. It is very deep, 
and at its bottom lies the skeleton of an exceptionally 
large Orc, a veritable monster. He was a lieutenant of 
the Witch-­king, and died in the attack — a Númenorean 
arrow still pierces his skull.
	
♦A wild apple tree, grown among the rocks. Anyone eat-
ing one of its sour apples and resting in its shade experi-
ences strange visions belonging to the past of the city.
	
♦An enormous, leprous deer haunts the ruins. It is an 
eerie apparition and a sign of ill-­omen. Player-­heroes 
gain 1 point of Shadow (Dread). 
	
♦
Beyond a rusty iron gate lies a patch of greenery, where 
the orchard of an herbalist once was. Several ancient 
and useful herbs still grow there, and can be gathered — 
they grant a bonus of (1d) to a HEALING roll, for a Success 
die worth of applications. 
	
♦Jalin, a lunatic Dwarf of Narag-­nâla, sometimes comes to 
dwell in the ruins. An outcast from his own people, he 
lives off rats and other disgusting things. Jalin’s dreams 
are haunted by the spirit of Elwen, as he feels a mix of 
love and fear for her. He will try to kill or drag into a trap 
any trespassers in "his city".
	
♦The pieces of a battering ram forged in the smithies of 
Angmar lie among the fragments of a shattered gate. Its 
huge metal head is shaped like that of a monstrous Orc 
with gaping maws. It is imbued with dark magic — If the 
heroes touch it, the ground under their feet collapses, 
causing them to fall for several yards into a buried 
chamber below (a long fall, see page 134). 
THE COMING OF THE LADY ELWEN: Once the Company 
reaches the Accursed Halls, at a moment when the Lore‐
master considers it most appropriate, the Lady Elwen 
approaches. She was once a valorous Dúnadan noble lady, 
but when her city fell, she survived, only to be slowly con-
sumed by grief and by the curse of the Chief of the Ring-
wraiths — she is now a Fell Wraith, bound to roam the ruins 
of her castle. 
As a Fell Wraith, she appears as a crooked hag, wrapped in 
tatters hiding her spectral features. Her flesh is almost trans-
parent, and her eyes glow like embers. Thin strands of white 
hair escape her hood. She addresses the Company speaking 
in a hissing voice and strange accent: 
“Why have you come? There’s nothing here, only death. Leave this 
place, or join me in my torment!” 
She is armed with a long, pitted sword, and a spear, the weap-
ons she used to defend her city and fortress.
Elwen
FELL WRAITH 
Horrific, Sorrowful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
2
HATE
5
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
2

Appendix
229
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES: Pitted Blade 3 (4/16),  
Spear 2 (4/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES: Deathless. Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound. 
When an attack inflicts damage to the creature that would 
cause it to go to zero Endurance, spend 1 Hate to bring the 
creatures back to full Endurance instead. This ability is inef-
fective against Player-­heroes wielding a magical weapon 
enchanted with spells for the Bane of the Undead.
Denizen of the Dark. All attack rolls are Favoured 
while in darkness.
Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is engaged in close combat with an adver-
sary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item.
Heartless: The creature is not affected by the Intimi-
date Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Thing of Terror: At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player-heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 3 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
TUTORIAL — BUILDING UP THE CLIMAX
The confrontation with Elwen can be run in many different 
ways, again based on what the players choose to do. The 
Loremaster can have her appear as a ghost would, in the 
middle of the night while the Player-­heroes are sleeping 
(hopefully with someone standing guard), or, they may 
spy her from afar, climbing down the stairs of the tower, 
and then turning towards them, slowly but inexorably. 
The ruins of the town offer many hiding places, should 
the Player-­heroes choose to stay away from her, but they 
won’t be able to get near the Tower without engaging her 
in combat. Moreover, she seems to possess an uncanny 
ability to sense where the Player-­heroes hide. 
THE CURSE OF THE LADY ELWEN: If the Player-­heroes man-
age to kill the Fell Wraith (reducing her to zero Endur-
ance, or Wounding her twice), they will experience for 
a moment a vision of a high Númenorean lady, in full 
armour, beautiful but terrible — she looks at the Player-­
heroes, then screams! 
As they recover their senses a moment later, they discover 
that Elwen is gone, only to return at some point later, fully 
restored and ready to fight (when the Loremaster deems it 
most appropriate for dramatic effect). 
During the time needed for her to return, the lumines-
cence at the top of the Tower of the Star intensifies (it’s the 
stone set on Hadirion’s crown, the focus of the curse).
The Lady Elwen can be finally put to rest if the crown 
nailed to the head of Hadirion is removed (see below). When 
this happens, Elwen recovers her lost beauty for an instant — 
then, her body crumbles to dust. The curse has been lifted.
THE TOWER OF THE STAR
Beyond the Accursed Halls rises the Tower of the Star. Built of 
a harder and more ancient stone than the rest of the ruins, it 
proved impervious to the power that crushed this place cen-
turies ago, and time itself was unable to cast it down. Only its 
highest floor was damaged in the war, and its jagged stone-
work makes it look like a hand with stunted fingers. 
It is here at the top of the tower that the mortal remains 
of the Lord Hadirion lie, a mummified body tied on a rotting 
throne of wood, a metal crown nailed to his head. A shining 
blue gem is set on the crown, its luminescence visible for 
miles and miles.
If the crown is removed from the brow of Hadirion, the 
curse is lifted (see The Curse of Lady Elwen) and the mum-
mified body of the Dunadan lord finally is reduced to dust. 
Until that moment, Elwen continues to haunt the ruins of the 
town and castle, attacking everyone on sight, until no living 
soul remains to remind her of what she lost…
A GREATER HOARD: Once the curse is lifted, the Player-­heroes 
have time to search the ruins. On the ground floor of the 
tower, hidden by debris, is a trapdoor. This leads to an under-
ground chamber, probably used as a dungeon once.
The dungeon contains what amounts to a greater hoard 
(see page 158 for the rules on Treasure).
schemes and trouble
This section presents events that can occur in the course of 
the Adventuring Phase session, based on the actions of the 
Player-­heroes. How to employ them is up to the Loremaster. 
THE BRIGANDS
The band of brigands sheltering in the area west of Sarn 
Ford is a large company of ruthless men. Driven by necessity 
and greed, they waylay those few travellers they meet on the 
road, and plunder the many ruins dotting the land, looking 
for treasure. They are careful to hide any proof of their mis-
deeds, to avoid raising the attention of the Rangers of the 
North — so far their strategy is working. 

APPENDIX
230
If the Company is not careful and the Loremaster deems it 
appropriate for the brigands to notice them, a group of bandits 
composed of one Highway Robber for each Player-­hero, plus 
two or three Footpads (see page 147) tries to ambush them. 
SABIAN, THE SPY FROM UMBAR
The brigands are being manipulated by a group of Men from 
Umbar, who seem to have an interest in exploring the ruins 
of Cardolan and Eriador. They have 
infiltrated the group of robbers, and 
are slowly taking the lead among 
them. Sabian is among them, 
a Southron mariner 
who now is leading 
the band operat-
ing beyond the 
Brandy­wine river. 
THE TOWER 
OF THE STAR
Staircase to  
The Accursed Halls
He is a spy, using the brigands’ activities as cover to explore 
Eriador and its ruins. 
How to employ Sabian is up to the Loremaster. He is 
stealthy and clever, and can hide easily, unless the Player-­
heroes make capturing him their primary goal. Sabian can 
spring traps on the Player-­heroes, or sabotage their plans. If 
left to his own devices, Sabian will eventually leave the ruins, 
and join the brigands outside (see Trapped!, below).
Sabian is a Southerner Raider (see page 146).
TREACHEROUS DWARVES
A colony of Dwarves from the southern Ered Luin lives deep 
underground, far below the Flooded Chambers. They are the 
descendants of the Dwarves that betrayed Hadirion and 
Elwen, and they still pay the price for the misdeed of their 
ancestors: to this day, they haven’t been able to reclaim 
the upper halls of their underground realm, as they are 
infested by the Marsh-­dwellers. 
A suspicious lot, they initially intend to harm the 
Player-­heroes, as they see them as trespassers in their 
domain — one of them rings the bell attracting the Marsh-­
dwellers when the Company first enters the ruins.
If the Company deals with the Marsh-­dwellers efficiently, 
the Dwarves might stop harassing them, as they start to 
believe they might indeed be able to lift the curse once and 
for all. 
From time to time, the Loremaster should give the Player-­
heroes a chance to notice they are being spied upon from a dis-
tance, always by one single figure, perhaps a Dwarf, who imme-
diately disappears when noticed.
If the Player-­heroes are determined to contact the 
Dwarves, they have a chance to succeed only if they 
look for them once the curse of the Tower of the Star 
has been lifted. In that case, the Dwarves themselves 
may choose to talk to the Player-­heroes.
TRAPPED!
In all likelihood, the Player-­heroes will 
spend the best part of their adven-
ture inside the ruins, on the other 
side of the ravine. As they are busy 
dealing with the creatures haunting the 
place, the brigands will return to their 
refuge, and find out what happened to 
their garrison there. 
In general terms, the brigands 
won’t enter the accursed ruins, and 
will lay in wait for the Player-­heroes 
to come back out. 

Appendix
231
They are too many for the Company to tackle head-­on — 
the Loremaster can consider them to be at least four times 
as numerous as the Player-­heroes, counting among them an 
assortment of Highway Robbers and Footpads.
One way could be to search for another way out by explor-
ing the Dwarven underground city. It seems very hard to nav-
igate, and seems only to go deeper and deeper. 
If the Player-­heroes do so, the Loremaster can use the A 
Council Underground event, presented below. 
A COUNCIL UNDERGROUND
If the Company is determined to explore the underground 
city, they are eventually beset by fire-­bearded, fierce Dwarven 
warriors, armed with great axes. They say that they cannot 
pass without leave from their lord, nor will they be able to 
find the way out without assistance — do they wish to seek 
counsel with him?
If they ask to see their lord, an underground bell tolls, 
and a single female Dwarf shows up: ‘You have asked to meet 
Veiko, lord of Narag-­nâla” (the Black River). 
All Player-­heroes must accept being blindfolded. Then, 
they are led even deeper underground, to a dark hall resound-
ing with the noise of running water.
Veiko is an ancient Dwarf, sitting on a crude throne of 
stone. She is blind, and speaks exclusively in the Dwarven 
speech, almost whispering — her daughter, Ilmi, leans over 
to hear what she says, and translates. Her guard stands by, 
old, grizzled Dwarven warriors armed with axes. Between 
themselves, they speak using the secret sign-­language of the 
Dwarves.
The meeting with Veiko can be set up using the rules for 
Councils. If the Player-­heroes are only asking to be led out 
of the Dwarven city and nothing else, their request can be 
considered reasonable (Resistance 3) if they have lifted the 
curse, or bold (Resistance 6) if they haven’t.
If the council results in a Failure, the Dwarves deny safe 
passage, and lead the Company to the upper halls again. On 
a Success with Woe, they allow the Company to pass on a con-
dition — they must yield the stone that was set on Hadirion’s 
crown (it was made by the Dwarves). On a Success, they are 
allowed safe passage simply on a promise that they will leave 
the Dwarves alone. They add that they want to be forgotten. 
The Player-­heroes are led out by secret passages, still blind-
folded, until they emerge on the surface once again, at a safe 
distance from the entrance, where the brigands lay in wait.
nameless things
“There are older and fouler things than Orcs in the deep places of the world.”
The darkest legends of the Dwarves whisper of ancient things 
living in the pools and lakes of remote dales, and lurking in 
dark tunnels dug before the Orcs came to the mountains. So 
little is known about these beings that no one ever gave them a 
name. They do not seem creations of the Great Enemy, Morgoth, 
for they are older than his lieutenant Sauron, and unknown to 
him. Their accursed breed might be akin to that of the mon-
strous Ungoliant, the mother of all Spiders, but they might be 
something else entirely. Whence they came no one can say — 
they are evil, but they do not heed the call of the Shadow.
What is certain about all of them is that they are always 
a horrible sight to behold, and that they are very dangerous. 
They are not just simple beasts, but have a primitive intelli-
gence, linked to their survival instinct, certainly, but often 
betraying some deeper drive or craving. They all hate the 
light, and thus live in the darkest recesses of the earth, or in 
VEIKO’S TALES
The following information can be used by the Lor-
emaster in the course of the Interaction stage of 
the council. 
Veiko and her folk are among those who 
decided not to go to Khazad-­dûm when Thangoro-
drim was broken, and chose to remain in the Ered 
Luin. But Veiko is so old she fought at Azanulbizar, 
and saw many Dwarves of her kin die in vain. If asked 
about their treachery, Veiko confesses with a broken 
voice that long ago a misguided Dwarf belonging to 
their kin helped the Witch-­king, but was betrayed 
himself. For centuries, they have waited for the day 
when the curse would be lifted from the upper halls, 
so that they could reclaim them. 

APPENDIX
232
the depths of lakes or underground rivers, which is the rea-
son why no one has ever seen one of them in their entirety. If 
they come to the surface, they do it for a short time, enough 
to spread fear and despair, and then they return to their hid-
den lairs to rest undisturbed.
nameless things 
in the one ring
Nameless Things can be introduced to the game by a Lore-
master looking for a formidable adversary for their Company 
of heroes. Differently from most opponents presented in this 
volume, they do not really belong to a specific breed, and 
thus must be designed by the Loremaster personally, using 
the guidelines offered below. The result will be a unique 
creature, complete with a level of backstory, to underline 
the long years that the creature has spent troubling the 
unhappy world.
CHILDREN OF DARKNESS
To create a Nameless Thing, the Loremaster must make a 
number of rolls on the tables presented in this section, using 
either a Feat die or a Success die, or by directly choosing the 
entries they see to be most fitting.
The tables numbered from 1 to 5 are used to create the 
identity of the thing, and give it a story.
	
♦Table 1 is used to determine how the Thing is referred to.
	
♦Table 2 is used to generate its general description.
	
♦Table 3 is used to determine what the Player-­heroes 
notice moments before the Thing appears, and then 
what they see first.
	
♦Table 4 is used to generate a rumour about the Thing.
	
♦Table 5 is used to discover where the Thing is 
remembered.
Tables 6 to 8 are instead used to determine the characteristics 
of the Nameless Thing in gaming terms. 
	
♦Table 6 determines all the usual stats required to use 
the Thing as an adversary, including the number of 
Fell Abilities it should possess.
	
♦Table 7 is used to determine the forms of attack that 
the Thing employs.
	
♦Table 8 lists all the Fell Abilities available to give the 
thing the powers it requires. 
Finally, all Nameless Things display tremendous resistance to 
damage but suffer badly under the light of the sun — they all 
possess the Hate Sunlight and Hideous Toughness Fell Abilities.
	
♦
HATE SUNLIGHT: The thing loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun. 
	
♦
HIDEOUS TOUGHNESS: The creature is unaffected by 
unarmed attacks. Additionally, when an attack inflicts 
damage to the creature that would cause it to go to 
zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. 
Then, if the creature is still alive its Endurance score is 
set back at half its maximum rating.
TABLE 1. THE THING IS REFERRED TO AS…
ROLL A FEAT DIE
ROLL A SUCCESS DIE ONCE FOR EACH COLUMN
The Bane
1
…in the Dark
…by Men
1
The Scourge
2
The Horror
2
…of the Abyss
…by Elves
3
The Terror
4
The Defiler
3
…in the Deep
…by Dwarves
5
The Devourer
6
The Stalker
4
…of the Pit
…by Orcs
7
The Hunter
8
The Watcher
5
…of Udûn
…by the Wise
9
The Crawler
10
The Lurker
6
…in the Water
…in ancient lore
The Flame

Appendix
233
TABLE 2. THE THING CAN BE DESCRIBED AS…
ROLL A FEAT DIE ONCE
ROLL A SUCCESS DIE
Bat-­like
1
…with remorseless eyes
1
Spider-­like
2
Fish-­like
2
…with great horns
3
Slug-­like
4
Worm-­like
3
…with luminous skin
5
Centipede-­like
6
Insect-­like
4
…with a huge head
7
Crustacean-­like
8
Octopus-­like
5
…with a swollen body
9
Man-­like
10
Toad-­like
6
…yet greater
Troll-­like
TABLE 3. WHEN FIRST ENCOUNTERED…
 BEFORE YOU SEE IT, YOU… (ROLL A FEAT DIE ONCE)
 WHAT YOU SEE FIRST… (ROLL A FEAT DIE ONCE)
…notice a deadly silence
…is a great shadow, in the middle of which is a dark form
1
…hear a sinister hissing
1
…are its great claws
2
…hear a low growl
2
…are its eyes, glowing in the dark 
3
…see the bones of its victims
3
…is that its body is flaccid and translucent, as if composed 
of gelatinous material
4
…feel your skin crawl
4
…is its gaping mouth, opening and closing as if gasping 
for air
5
…hear a deafening sound or scream
5
…is a large maw, with fangs eerily similar to human teeth
6
…notice its tracks
6
…is that swarms of insects or other vermin are crawling 
before it
7
…hear a terrifying scream
7
…is a long, sinuous tentacle, slithering towards you 
8
…smell a hideous stench
8
…are its huge fangs, so big and long that it cannot close its 
mouth
9
…feel a violent gust of air
9
…are its wide, blind eyes
10
…hear a piping sound
10
…are many twisted horns of stained ivory 
 
…feel a terrible cold
 
 …is a vision of a beautiful creature, a phantom of the mind

APPENDIX
234
TABLE 4. A RUMOUR ABOUT THE THING:
 ROLL A FEAT DIE
When Sauron reoccupied Dol Guldur, he sought the allegiance of the many dark things living in Mirkwood. Some 
refused, and were imprisoned in the vast dungeons of the fortress. When the White Council attacked, one such crea-
ture was still kept there in chains, dying. Later, it managed to break free and vanish into the darkness, a sworn enemy 
of any living being.
1
When Annúminas was young, the Men of Arnor disturbed something monstrous that had been sleeping on the bot-
tom of Lake Evendim for millennia. One summer night, the thing lashed out in fury at several ships anchored near the 
harbour, dragging them into the depths, along with their crews. Then, it disappeared again. For a while.
2
Forced long ago to serve Sauron, the thing fought at the battle of Dagorlad, spreading terror among the ranks of the 
Elves. Since no one had the courage to face it, Gil-­galad himself had to intervene. Surprised by the steadfastness of 
the High King and the splendour of Aiglos, his great spear, the thing chose to retreat. With the defeat of its master, 
the thing regained its free will and fled across Middle-­earth.
3
After the Great Plague, the once wealthy Tharbad fell into decay, and its population diminished. One night, some 
among those who still lived in the city saw a large black shadow slowly approach the bridge, encompassing it. After a 
few moments, with a great roar, the bridge crumbled into a thousand pieces.
4
Ohtar, Isildur's squire who was among the few to save himself from the ambush of the Orcs, escaped the disaster of 
the Gladden Fields, taking with him the sword of Elendil. Some say he was chased for a long time by a monstrous 
creature, which moved only at night. The thing seemed able to 'smell' his movements. 
5
Fornost didn’t fall by normal means. The Witch-­king of Angmar unleashed against the city a terrifying creature that 
owed the Wraith-­king a debt of gratitude. It was this enemy of all light and life that disrupted the defenses and 
brought them down. The debt paid, it returned to the darkness from which it had been called.
 6
The Dwarves spoke of many horrors haunting the Grey Mountains. Emerging from who knows where, they crawled 
into the mines, killing and destroying. Eventually the Dwarves managed to drive them out, but one of them just 
wouldn't go away. It is said that it was Thorin I who defeated and drove it away, in a long duel that took place in the 
dark depths of the mine.
7
For a long time, the thing dwelt in a deep cave in the northernmost foothills of the Misty Mountains. The Hillmen 
worshipped it as a god, feeding and caring for it. Then war came to those territories. Armies of Elves and Men drove 
out the Hillmen, and the thing was deprived of its followers, developing an irrepressible hatred against the invaders.
8
Centuries ago, the thing dwelt in the darkest recesses of a valley on the east side of the Misty Mountains. One day, it 
came to a village of the Woodmen, when the hunters were away. When they returned, they were met by a gruesome 
scene: dismembered bodies, destroyed houses, a terrible smell that filled the air. No survivors.
9
Once every certain number of years, the thing returns to the Mountains of Mirkwood. When it does, hundreds of Spi-
ders, large and small, swarm as if crazed to the south or west, overwhelming whatever they encounter in their path.
10
The thing is greedy. Not for treasure, but for bones. Animal ones are easy to get, and so are those of Orcs, Men, or 
Dwarves — this has made the thing hungry for the bones of Elves.
When Beleriand was broken, many creatures fled its ruin. Among them is a thing that is particularly large and cruel. 
Since that time, it has been moving east.

Appendix
235
TABLE 5. WHERE THE THING IS REMEMBERED:
ROLL A FEAT DIE
Orcs hate the evil things that crawl in the dark perhaps even more than Men, Elves, and Dwarves. For they are more 
often the ones who end up as food to feed them. Being able to talk to an Orc could prove very useful, if the thing is 
nearby.
1
The Great Eagles see many things from above, but they don't speak of them unless they have a good reason. They do 
not tell, for example, of the monstrosity that after darkness haunted the banks of the Great River long ago, devour-
ing lonely travellers. They spied it incessantly. One day, it was gone. The Eagles searched the surroundings for a long 
time, but to no avail.
2
There is only one Elven song that tells of the mournings caused by the thing, but being immensely sad, it is seldom 
sung in the Hall of Fire of Rivendell. Some say that if it's nighttime and you fear the thing is nearby, singing the whole 
song will keep it from getting closer.
3
A sentence carved onto the wall of a dark cave in the north near the Grey Waste, reads: “Here Belegorn son of Bergil 
of Dol Amroth banished the thing from the Abyss but died of its foul wounds. Glorfindel of the Elves retrieved his 
body to return to his family”
4
Among the ancient scrolls and books preserved in Minas Tirith, there is a brief chronicle of the times when the city 
itself was built. Despite numerous missing pieces of text, it is clear that it concerns the presence of an evil thing under 
Mount Mindolluin, horrible to look upon and very aggressive.
5
Few traces remain of the countless generations of Northmen who inhabited the southeastern edge of Mirkwood. 
Among them is a burial monument covered in soft moss. An inscription speaks of the death of Crinna, a village chief 
probably, caused by a terrible thing that came out of the woods at night and could only be kept at bay by lighting 
large fires.
6
Since many Hobbits are afraid of the water, there is a common test of courage among the youth of the Eastfarthing 
that involves reciting a nursery rhyme while sitting on the shore of the Brandywine, at night. The rhyme, handed 
down since the dawn of time, speaks of a thing made of darkness, which comes out of the water and devours those 
who look at their reflection in the moonlight.
7
The Rangers tell many tales of the horrible and mysterious things that prowl in Eriador. Most are made up, the Elves 
laughingly say, but one is definitely not. A creature that can suddenly appear at your side while you're sleeping. The 
Elves speak of it as well, but they are less concerned, since they never sleep…
8
Saruman loves secrets. And he is adept at keeping quiet about his well-­stocked collection of texts concerning the 
presence of dark creatures roaming Middle-­earth. He tried to classify them once, but soon desisted: too many, and 
too different from each other.
9
The Seeing Stone on the tower of Elostirion, in the Emyn Beraid, constantly looks westwards, beyond the sea. Only on 
very few occasions does it turn its gaze elsewhere, when a creature as ancient and evil approaches the Grey Havens. 
It follows this hideous thing in all its movements, and only when it passes out of sight does the Stone return to look 
towards the immortal lands.
10
In the private library of Elrond, in Rivendell, there is a parchment entirely dedicated to the creature, with many indi-
cations about its habits and the places where it might lurk.
 
Only the wisest of Middle-­earth know anything about this dark creature as old as the earth. And they fear it. But by 
asking them directly, some good advice might be acquired. If you want to avoid it or flee from it of course, not on 
how to fight it, for no one would be so foolish…

APPENDIX
236
TABLE 6. CHARACTERISTICS:
FEAT DIE ROLL
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL 
AND HATE
ARMOUR
ENDURANCE
MIGHT
COMBAT 
PROFICIENCY
# OF FELL 
ABILITIES
12
5d
120
3
4
5
1–2
11
4d
110
3
3
4
3–4
10
4d
100
3
3
4
5–6
  9
3d
90
2
3
3
7–8
  8
3d
80
2
3
3
  9–10
  7
3d
70
2
3
2
  6
2d
60
2
2
2
A Nameless Thing should be given a Parry modifier if the concept suits the description of a creature that can deftly avoid the attacks of its enemies 
(ranging from +1 to +3). If the thing is slow and bulky, no Parry modifier should be applied (and a negative modifier could be considered instead).
TABLE 7. ATTACK FORMS: 
SUCCESS DIE ROLL*
ATTACK
DAMAGE
INJURY
SPECIAL DAMAGE
1–2
Crush (hooves, paws)
Attribute Level
12
Break Shield
3–4
Bite (bite, beak)
Attribute Level −2
14
Pierce
5–6
Rend (fangs, claws)
Attribute Level −2
16
Seize
* Roll twice on the following table to determine the primary and secondary attacks of the Nameless Thing.
TABLE 8. FELL ABILITIES:
ROLL A FEAT DIE
Thing of Terror
At the start of the first round of the battle all Player-heroes in sight of one or more creatures with 
this ability gain 3 Shadow points (Dread). Those who fail their Shadow test are daunted and can-
not spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
1
Deadly Wound
Wounded targets make an Ill-­favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity of the injury.
2
Denizen of the 
Dark
All rolls are Favoured while in darkness.
3
Great Leap
Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player-hero, in any combat stance, including Rearward.
4
Horrible 
Strength
If the creature hits and causes a Piercing Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill-­favoured.
5
Poison
If an attack results in a Wound, the target is also poisoned (see page 134).
6
Heartless
The creature is not affected by the Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained. 
7
Thick Hide
Spend 1 Hate point to gain (2d) on a Protection roll.

Appendix
237
8
Strike Fear 
Spend 1 Hate to make all Player-­heroes in sight gain a number of Shadow points (Dread) equal 
to the Might rating of the creature. Those who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
9
Snake-like Speed 
When targeted by an attack, spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill-favoured. 
10
Foul Reek
Spend 1 Hate point to cause all combatants engaged with the thing to lose (1d) on all rolls for 
the round.
Fear of Fire
The thing loses 1 Hate at the start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an adversary 
wielding a torch or other sort of burning item. 

index
A
Action Resolution (Combat)  97
Adelard Took  187
Advantages  102
Adventure Points  56
Adventuring Career  56
Adventuring in the Third Age  8
The Adventuring Phase  12, 92
Ambushes  95
Armour (Adversaries)  144
Armour and Shields  75
Athletics (Skill)  61
Attack Roll  98
Attribute Level (Adversaries)  143
Attributes  29
Awareness (Skill)  62
Awe (Skill)  62
Axes (Combat Proficiency)  66
B
Balin, son of Fundin  52
Banes (Treasure)  162
Bardings  32
Barnabas Butterbur  183
Battle (Skill)  62
Beinion and Arin of Evendim  180
Bilbo Baggins  52
Blessings  162
Bold (Distinctive Feature)  67
Bonus Success Dice  20
Border Land  113
Bout of Madness  139
Bows (Combat Proficiency)  66
Brawling Attacks  67
Break Shield (Adversaries)  144
Bree-hobbits  181
Búrzgul  198
C
Callings  44
Canon and the Loremaster  129
Captain (Calling)  44
Carrying Treasure  159
Champion (Calling)  44
Change Useful Items (Fellowship Phase)  121
Changing a Distinctive Feature  67
Characteristics  29
Círdan the Shipwright  52
Close Quarters Rounds  95
Combat Proficiencies  65
Combat Proficiencies (Adversaries)  144
Combat Tasks  102
Common (Standard of Living)  72
The Company  51
Complications  102
Complications and Advantages  101
Conditions  22
Council Sequence  104
Council Structure  106
Courtesy (Skill)  62
Craft (Skill)  62
Craftsmanship (Treasure)  162, 163
Creating the Heir  57
Cultural Virtues  81
Cunning (Distinctive Feature)  67
Current Year  207
Cursed Items  167
D
Dark Land  113
Defensive Stance  96
Degree of Success  18
Derived Stats  29
Die Roll Modifiers  20
Die Roll Procedure  23
Disaster!  131
Distinctive Features  30, 67
Distinctive Features (Adversaries)  144
Dread (Shadow)  137
Dwarves of Durin’s Folk  34
Dying  101
E
Eager (Distinctive Feature)  67
Elves of Lindon  36
Enchanted Rewards  165
Ending the Journey  111
End of a Council  108
Endurance  69
Endurance (Adversaries)  143
Endurance Loss  98, 134
Endurance Loss Levels  134
Engagement  96
Engagement Limits  97
Enhearten (Skill)  62
Experience  55
Experience Points Costs (Fellowship Phase)  
119
Explore (Skill)  62
Exploring Middle-earth  207
Extreme Cold  134
Eye Awareness  170
Eye of Sauron  17
F
Fair (Distinctive Feature)  68
Fair-spoken (Distinctive Feature)  68
Faithful (Distinctive Feature)  68
Falling  134
Fatal Injuries  134
Fatigue  69, 111
Favoured Rolls  20
Favoured Skills  60
The Feat Dice  17
Fell Abilities  144
Fellowship Focus  55
The Fellowship Phase  13
Fellowship Phase Structure  118
Fellowship Rating  54
Fend Off (Special Damage)  99
Fierce (Distinctive Feature)  68
Fire  134
First Aid  101
Fitch Talltree, the Forester of Archet  188
Flawed Heroes  141
Flaws  141
Fleeing  104
Foolish Actions  131
Forced March  111
Forward Stance  96
Frugal (Standard of Living)  72
Further Adventures  56
G
Gandalf Rune  17
Gandalf the Grey  52
Generous (Distinctive Feature)  68
Gilraen, daughter of Dírhael  52
Glossary of Game Terms  24
Greed (Shadow)  138
Growth (Fellowship Phase)  119
Guide (Journey Role)  109
H
Handling Scenes  126
Harden Will  137
Hate (Adversaries)  143
Hazardous Actions  131
Healing (Skill)  62
Heavy Blow (Adversaries)  144
Heavy Blow (Special Damage)  99
Heirs  56
Heroic Ventures  93
Hoarding Riches  73
Hoard rating  158
Hoards  158
Hobbit-Ponies and Full-Sized Horses  50
Hobbits of the Shire  38
Honourable (Distinctive Feature)  68
Hope  71
Hope Bonus  20
Hunter (Journey Role)  109
Hunting (Skill)  63
Hunt Threshold  172
I
Ill-favoured rolls  20
Improve Standard of Living  73
Inquisitive (Distinctive Feature)  68
Insight (Skill)  63
Inspiration  20
Interaction (Councils)  106
Intimidate Foe (Combat Task)  102
Introduction (Councils)  106
Items of Superior Worth  79
J
John Ferny  184
Journey Event Resolution  112
Journey Events  114
Journey Events Table  112
Journey Length  111
Journey Log  108, 110
Journey Path  109
Journey Roles  109
Journeys  108
Journey Sequence  109
K
Keen-eyed (Distinctive Feature)  68
Knockback  98
L
Landmarks  221
Languages and Typical Names  30
Load  49
Look-out (Journey Role)  109
Lordly (Distinctive Feature)  68
Loremaster Actions (Combat)  98
The Loremaster as Director  128
The Loremaster as Narrator  129
The Loremaster as Referee  128
Loremaster Characters  135
Lore (Skill)  63
M
Madness  139
Magical Success  21
Magical Treasure  159
Making Rolls  17
The Map  108
Marching Test  110
Men of Bree  40
Merry (Distinctive Feature)  68
Messenger (Calling)  45
Might (Adversaries)  143
Misdeeds (Shadow)  138
Miserable  22, 71, 137
More Enemies than Player-heroes  97
More Player-heroes than Enemies  97
N
Named Weapons  80
O
The Onset of Battle  93
Opening Volleys  94
Open Stance  96
Opposed Actions  132
Oswald Breeker  186
P
Palantír  216
Parry (Adversaries)  144
Patient (Distinctive Feature)  68
Patron  52, 212
Penalty Success Dice  21
Perilous Areas  111
Persuade (Skill)  64
Pierce (Adversaries)  144
Pierce (Special Damage)  99
Piercing Blows  99
Playing the Game  8
Poison  134
Poor (Standard of Living)  72
The Prancing Pony  181
Precious Objects  159
Prepare Shot (Combat Task)  103
Previous Experience  46
Prolonged Rest  71
Prosperous (Standard of Living)  72
Protect Companion (Combat Task)  103
Protection Test  99
Proud (Distinctive Feature)  68
R
Raising an Heir  56
Rally Comrades (Combat Task)  102
Rangers of the North  42
Rearward Stance  96
Recovering Hope  71
Repeating a Roll  17
Resistance (Councils)  105
Resolve (Adversaries)  143
Resolving Attacks  98
Resting  71
Revealing the Company  172
Rewards  78
Rich (Standard of Living)  72
Riddle (Skill)  64
Risk Levels  131
Rustic (Distinctive Feature)  68
S
The Safe Haven  53
Scan (Skill)  64
Scholar (Calling)  45
Scout (Journey Role)  109
Secretive (Distinctive Feature)  68
Seize (Adversaries)  144
Session Length and Advancement Rate  57
The Shadow of the Past  9
Shadow Paths  140
Shadow Points  136
Shadow Tests  137
Shield Thrust (Special Damage)  99
Short Rest  71
Singing Songs  123
Skill Categories  60
Skill Endeavour Sequence  132
Skill Groups  61
Skill List  61
Skill Points  56
Skills  60
Skills and Combat Proficiencies  30
Smoke Ring Festival  187
Song (Skill)  65
Sorcery (Shadow)  139
Sources of Injury  134
Sources of Shadow  137
Spears (Combat Proficiency)  66
Special Damage  99
Special Damage Options (Adversaries)  144
Special Successes  18
Spiritual Recovery (Fellowship Phase)  119
Stances  95
Standard Actions  131
Standards of Living  72
Starting Gear  47
Starting Patrons  52
Starting Reward and Virtue  51
Starting Treasure rating  72
Stealth (Skill)  65
Stern (Distinctive Feature)  68
Structure of the Game  12
Subtle (Distinctive Feature)  69
The Success Dice  18
Success Icon  17
Succumbing to the Shadow  140
Suffocation  134
Support  20
Surprise Attacks  95
Swift (Distinctive Feature)  69
Swords (Combat Proficiency)  66
T
Talking with the Enemy  99
Tall (Distinctive Feature)  69
Target Numbers  18, 29
Tom Bombadil and Lady Goldberry  52
Training (Fellowship Phase)  119
Travel Fatigue  111
Travelling Gear  49
Travel (Skill)  65
Treasure Hunter (Calling)  45
The Treasure Index  160
The Treasury  164
True-hearted (Distinctive Feature)  69
U
Undertakings (Fellowship Phase)  121
Unengaged Heroes  97
Useful Items  49
Useful Skills (Councils)  107
V
Valour  78
Very Rich (Standard of Living)  73
Virtues  80
Virtues of the Bardings  81
Virtues of the Dwarves  82
Virtues of the Elves  84
Virtues of the Hobbits  85
Virtues of the Men of Bree  87
Virtues of the Rangers of the North  88
W
Warden (Calling)  46
War Gear  47
Wary (Distinctive Feature)  69
Weapons  73
Weary  22, 69
When to Roll  16
The Wight-king  195
Wild Land  113
Wilful (Distinctive Feature)  69
Wisdom  78
Woe  131
Wounded  22
Wounds  101
Wound Severity  101
Y
Your Characters  28
Yule (Fellowship Phase)  120

NAME
ARMOUR
VALOUR
WISDOM
Heroic Culture
Cultural Blessing
Calling
Awe 
Athletics
Awareness
Hunting
Song
Craft
Axes
Bows
Spears
Swords
Weary
Miserable
Wounded
Enhearten 
Travel 
Insight 
Healing 
Courtesy
Battle
Persuade 
Stealth 
Scan
Explore
Riddle
Lore
Age
Patron
Shadow Path
Standard of Living
Distinctive Features
Flaws
strength
heart
rewards
travelling gear
virtues
combat proficiencies
wits
war gear
skills
Damage
Protection
Parry
Load
Load
Helm
SHIELD
conditions
current 
hope
FATIGUE
SHADOW SCARS
LOAD
SHADOW
ENDURANCE
HOPE
PARRY
TN
TN
TN
current 
endurance
Notes
Injury
Load
Injury
RATING
RATING
RATING
skill 
points
fellowship 
score
adventure 
points
Treasure

event 1
Target
Event
Result
event 2
Target
Event
Result
event 3
Target
Event
Result
event 4
Target
Event
Result
event 5
Target
Event
Result
event 6
Target
Event
Result
ponies and horses 
Name 
Vigour
journey log
Year
Season
Journey from
Destination
Days of travel
the company
Name 
Journey Role
journal
journey path
Travel Fatigue


SET JOURNEY PATH
Set a journey path connecting the point of 
departure to the destination, and record it on 
the Journey Log (counting the hex containing 
the destination but not the departure).
MAKE MARCHING TESTS
The Guide of the Company makes a Marching 
Test rolling TRAVEL, to determine where journey 
events take place along the journey path.
	
♦If the TRAVEL roll succeeds, an event takes 
place 3 hexes away, plus 1 for each Suc-
cess icon.
	
♦If the TRAVEL roll fails, an event occurs 2 
hexes away in Summer and Spring, and 1 
hex away in Winter or Autumn.
Follow the Event Resolution rules (page 112) 
to determine the precise nature of the event.
Once an event has been resolved, the Guide 
makes a new Marching Test to determine where 
another event will take place.
	
♦The journey ends when a Marching Test 
result matches or exceeds the number of 
hexes left between the Company’s current 
position and their point of arrival — the 
Company has reached its destination.
END OF THE JOURNEY
A journey lasts a number of days equal to the 
number of hexes in the journey path, plus 1 day 
for each hard terrain hex (hills, woods, marshes, 
etc.). If the entire Company is travelling on 
horseback, halve the resulting total (rounding 
fractions up).
	
♦On a forced march, count 1 day for each 2 
hexes in the journey path instead of 1, but 
each Player-hero accumulates 1 additional 
point of Fatigue each day.
CALCULATE TRAVEL FATIGUE
Fatigue is recorded on the journey log sheet, 
and cannot be shaken off while the journey lasts.
	
♦At the end of the journey, Player-­heroes 
with a mount reduce their total Fatigue by 
their mount’s Vigour rating (see page 50).
All Player-heroes can further reduce their accu-
mulated Fatigue with a roll of TRAVEL.
	
♦A success reduces the total Fatigue by 1, 
plus 1 point for each Success icon ( ).
Any remaining Fatigue is removed at the rate of 
1 point of Fatigue for each Prolonged Rest taken 
in a sheltered and safe refuge.
Border Lands
Wild Lands
Dark Lands
Impassable Terrain
Perilous Area
1 hex = 20 miles

