THE RULES
2
PROLOGUE
His sword, Sting, Bilbo hung over his fireplace,  
and his coat of marvellous mail, the gift of the Dwarves  
from the Dragon-­hoard, he lent to a museum,  
to the Michel Delving Mathom-­house in fact.  
But he kept in a drawer at Bag End the old cloak and 
hood that he had worn on his travels; and the ring, 
secured by a fine chain, remained in his pocket.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Prologue
3
From a letter from Bilbo Baggins, Esq. to Balin son of Fundin.
Dearest Balin,
Almost six years have passed already since the last time you were here. 
I remember very well everything you and Gandalf said when we met. 
You were alarmed, and I took your warnings to heart, but I don’t think 
you would find it surprising to know that news of a nameless threat is 
hard to believe here in the dear old Shire. Gandalf came to see me again, 
on several occasions. He seems to care about our friendship, and he says 
I should indeed be worried, but his vague words of warning make even less 
of a dent in the general sense of peace and protection that we enjoy here, 
away in the north-­west.
But don’t think that I am completely clueless! All I need is to have a look 
at... the things I collected in my adventures to remember that there 
is a wide and dangerous world out there. Sometimes I even miss it, the 
road, the thrill, the narrow escapes. It’s my Tookish side. But then I look 
at my beautiful garden, my snapdragons and sunflowers, my trailing 
nasturtians... how they glow, red and golden, more beautiful than any 
Dragon-­hoard that ever was, and I am back to being a Baggins.
I hope what I say won’t be too much of a disappointment to you. 
You haven’t asked yet, but I know that you mean to invite me to join 
you in that Moria adventure you are always talking about. I am afraid 
that I have spent enough time crawling in the dark under the Misty 
Mountains not to wish to do that ever again! But there’s a good bunch of 
eager lads and lasses here that you might find to your liking. Why, they 
are just waiting for no more than a nod in their direction from me or 
from our Grey friend to go off into the blue on mad adventures! Theirs is 
an age that is more appropriate to that type of business, believe me, an
d 
I have taught them a thing or two. I suspect that Gandalf has too...
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
4
example of play
You struck some very good deals at the market today, and on your 
way home you decided to celebrate at The Green Dragon Inn. But 
now you all regret that decision, as the sun has already set in the 
west and dark clouds are gathering.
In fact, you are still crossing the open fields towards your home 
in the Green Hill Country when it starts to rain; it will take you 
at least another hour of restless march to get home. What’s worse, 
since when it got dark, you heard a wolf howling. Twice, and the 
second time was closer.
THE LORE­MASTER: What do you do?
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (PLAYING LOBELIA): I stop and look around 
for a shelter.
THE LORE­MASTER: It’s dark already, and you can’t see clearly; 
make a SCAN roll.
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): I have a rating of 2 in SCAN, I want 
to spend a point of Hope to add 1 more.
THE LORE­MASTER: Don’t forget to roll one Feat die too.
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): Yes, of course. Right, my WITS TN 
is 14. Let’s see; 9-1-3-5. I succeeded!
THE LORE­MASTER: On the left you see a small, low building. If 
you want to reach it you’ll have to leave the road.
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): Speaking in character: “Let’s go there, 
at least we’ll be dry.”
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PLAYING PALADIN): I don’t like the idea of leav-
ing the road, and get closer to the trees, but I don’t see other options. 
I shout back to Lobelia: “I’m with you!”
THE LORE­MASTER: As you reach the building, you take a look at 
it, at the dim light of your lanterns. It’s a simple stone construction 
with a roof covered in turf, used by shepherds. No sounds or smoke 
come out of it.
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PALADIN): I look for the door to get inside.
THE LORE­MASTER: You find it easily, but it’s closed. There is a 
wooden latch, tied with a rope. The knot looks tight.
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): We have no time to lose, I try to 
force it open.
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PALADIN): “What are you doing? We can’t dam-
age someone else’s property!” Can I loosen the knot?
THE LORE­MASTER: You can try, roll CRAFT.
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PALADIN): Let me see; STRENGTH TN 17, 
CRAFT rating is 3. I roll 6-2-3-2, only 13… I didn’t do great.
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): Ok, it’s time to use a bit of brute force…
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Prologue
5
“THIS IS THE MASTER-­RING,  
THE ONE RING TO RULE THEM ALL.”
It is the year 2960 of the Third Age and the Shadow is 
returning. Twenty years ago, an alliance of Elves, Men, 
and Dwarves defeated a horde of Orcs and Wild Wolves, 
under a sky darkened by Giant Bats, inaugurating a new 
era of prosperity for the Free Peoples. But twenty years 
is a long time for peace to last, and in many dark corners 
of the Earth a shadow is lengthening once again.
Rumours of strange things happening outside the 
borders of civilised lands are spreading with increas-
ing regularity, and while they are dismissed by most 
as fireside-­tales and children’s stories, they sometimes 
reach the ears of individuals who recognise the sinister 
truth they hide.
These are restless warriors, curious scholars and wan-
derers, always eager to seek what was lost or explore 
what was forgotten. Ordinary people call them adven-
turers, and when they prevail, they hail them as heroes. 
But if they fail, no one will even remember their names…
This is the premise of The One Ring, a roleplaying 
game based on The ­Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, two 
extraordinary works of fiction by the beloved author and 
respected academic, John Ronald Reuel ­Tolkien. With 
these books, ­Tolkien introduced readers to his greatest 
creation, the world of Middle-­earth, a mythic land from 
a remote past. With The One Ring, Middle-­earth is yours 
to explore — you will travel the land searching for clues 
about the return of the Shadow, and have the chance to 
play a part in the struggle against the Enemy.
THE TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
The One Ring is set in the time period running from the 
events narrated in The ­Hobbit to those told in The Lord 
of the Rings. Encompassing more than six decades, this 
period is ushered in when Bilbo the ­Hobbit finds the Rul-
ing Ring, and culminates with the war fought by the Free 
Peoples against the Dark Lord Sauron, and the destruc-
tion of the Ring.
Players of The One Ring create a Company of heroes 
— Hobbits, Dwarves, Elves, and Men, seeking adventure 
in the Lone-­lands of Eriador. It is a desolate country, a 
vast region that once saw the glory of the North Kingdom 
of the Dúnedain, the Men of the West. Here, many wars 
were fought, and countless ruins dot its landscape. Shad-
ows move along its paths, and not all of them belong 
to the living.
It is in Eriador that the One Ring lies, dormant, a 
seed of the past that will one day bring the end of this 
age of the world.
THE LORE­MASTER: Can both of you please make an AWARE-
NESS roll?
PLAYER-­HERO 1 (LOBELIA): My STRENGTH TN is 18; Ah! 
I rolled an Eye of Sauron 3-4-1, didn’t pass it.
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PALADIN): TN 17; 5-3-3-4, neither did I!
THE LORE­MASTER: You were so busy discussing and trying to open 
the door that did not notice the stranger until the very last moment. It’s 
a tall, dark and hooded figure, now raising a wicked-­looking longsword!
PLAYER-­HERO 2 (PALADIN): I draw my short sword to parry!
THE LORE­MASTER: You were caught by surprise, you can’t act 
this round. With a single blow, the sword cuts the rope in two. While 
sheathing it, the figure finally speaks with a warm, female voice: 
“Forgive my intrusion, my small friends, my name is Amantadine. 
Would you mind sharing this humble shed with me?”
The short “unfinished tale” above is an example of what can 
happen during play. The One Ring is what is called a pen-­and-­
paper roleplaying game. Thanks to video and online games, 
millions of people are familiar with this form of entertain-
ment, where players create fictional heroes and explore 
shared worlds populated by computer-­controlled creatures 
and, in online games, accessed by a multitude of other players.
In The One Ring Starter Set, players choose characters and 
meet face-­to-­face around a table or across the world on video, 
and the computer is replaced by one person taking the man-
tle of the Lore­master — a director, a referee, and a narrator.
The game can be played with as few as two people (one 
player plus the Lore­master), and with as many as six players 
or more. All that is needed are dice, paper, pencils, imagina-
tion, and a love for ­Tolkien’s imaginary world.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
6
in the shire
This is a story of how a Baggins had an adventure,  
found himself doing and saying things altogether unexpected.
For generations of fans, the Shire has been the gateway to 
Middle-­earth. Both the Quest for Erebor told in The ­Hobbit 
and that to Mount Doom described in The Lord of the Rings 
start here, with Bilbo and Frodo providing the readers with 
a first-­person perspective — a point of view allowing them to 
unravel the complexity of the world of Arda step by step. It 
is a small world, almost fable-­like, where a single Wild Wolf 
poses a serious threat, and a Wizard is maybe nothing more 
than an eccentric fireworks-­maker.
In the same way, this Starter Set describes the Shire as 
an introductory, less dangerous setting for new (and maybe 
younger) players of The One Ring roleplaying game:
By using the material provided in this boxed set, the 
players will have a taste of the game and the world, 
using a simpler set of rules and adventuring within lim-
ited boundaries. Once they familiarize with the game 
mechanics and the scope of the game, players of the 
Starter Set will be ready to take on The One Ring, and 
venture across the vast expanses of Eriador and beyond.
These rules contain everything you need to quickly set up a game 
and play the scenarios presented in The Adventures, using the 
pre­generated characters contained in the box.
the player-­heroes
With the exception of the Lore­master, each player takes the 
role of a single Player-­hero, a fictional character whose attri-
butes are inspired by those of the protagonists of the stories 
by J.R.R. ­Tolkien.
This Starter Set is played using a number of pre-­
generated characters, ready-­to-­play heroes setting 
the players on the road to adventure in no time. The 
available characters include esteemed Hobbits like 
Drogo Baggins, Paladin Took, Primula Brandybuck, 
Lobelia Bracegirdle, and more.
To enter Middle-­earth, players must simply step into their 
characters’ shoes, trying to think as they would think and 
react as they would react. It is a game of make-­believe, a story 
in the making, created in collaboration with the Lore­master.
the lore­master
The Lore­master doesn’t take the role of a single character, 
but is instead the player in charge of describing the setting 
and managing what happens to the Player-­heroes when they 
interact with the game world.
The Lore­master begins each session of play by setting 
the scene, playing the parts of the people and crea-
tures the characters encounter — called Lore­master 
characters or Adversaries, based on whether they are 
peaceful or hostile — and adjudicating the conse-
quences of the heroes’ actions.
The Lore­master is the eyes and ears of the Player-­heroes, in 
charge of describing the locales where the action is taking 
place and playing the parts of the people they meet, using the 
rules to fairly adjudicate the outcome of their actions. To do 
so, the Lore­master interprets and reinvents Middle-­earth as 
a setting for the players to explore. The ultimate goal of the 
Lore­master is to provide the premise for the creation of a new 
epic, focused entirely around the deeds of the Player-­heroes.
ENTERING MIDDLE-­EARTH…
The aim of The One Ring is to let players feel what 
it means to go adventuring in a wild and peril-
ous land from a forgotten past. It is a threatening 
world that has more in common with the world 
depicted in epic sagas or with the Dark Ages of 
Europe than with our contemporary world.
Players are invited to leave the age of infor-
mation and fast travel behind, and adopt the point 
of view of individuals whose horizons often didn’t 
extend further than a few miles from their birthplace.
The landscape revealed by this perspective is a 
world with uncertain boundaries, and only vague 
hints of distant realms and the folks who inhabit 
them; a place that for these very reasons offers plenty 
of opportunities for exploration and adventure.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Prologue
7
structure of the game
“Still, I wonder if we shall ever be put into songs or tales. We’re in one, of course; 
but I mean: put into words, you know, told by the fireside, or read out of a 
great big book with red and black letters, years and years afterwards.”
Story-­building is a fundamental component of The One Ring. 
But it isn’t about hearing a story being told, but about creating it 
over the course of the game, as the result of the interaction at the 
gaming table between the Lore­master and the Player-­heroes.
having adventures
A session of play is played as a series of scenes, connected 
sequentially in a wider narrative arc. A scene is a single epi-
sode focusing on the Company, or part of it, facing some 
kind of challenge, preparing for one, or recovering from it.
It is up to the Lore­master to initially frame each 
scene, especially those that are putting the Company 
in danger.
To frame a scene, the Lore­master needs to first describe the 
location where the action is taking place, and who is there 
among the Player-­heroes and their potential adversaries 
or allies; then, the Lore­master defines the challenge that 
the Company is facing, considering the perspective of each 
involved Player-­hero.
Once the Lore­master is done setting up the scene, 
the players proceed to describe how their characters 
react to the situation.
In particular, players need to choose what actions their Player-­
heroes take to investigate and resolve the challenge facing 
them. Players have full control over what their heroes do and 
how they do it, but it is the Lore­master that determines how 
every part of the world — from Lore­master characters to 
creatures and the environment — reacts to what the Player-­
heroes do.
In general, to play out a scene and determine its conse-
quences, the Lore­master and the players need nothing 
more than common sense and the rules concerning 
Action Resolution described on page 8. (A notable 
exception are those scenes that require the applica-
tion of the rules for Combat described on page 22 — 
luckily, a rare occurrence in the Shire!)
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
8
action resolution
Of the various burglarious proceedings he had heard of,  
picking the trolls’ pockets seemed the least difficult…
As previously explained, a game session takes the form of a con-
tinuous conversation between the Lore­master and the players. 
There are no turns, and the dialogue alternates between the 
Lore­master and the players who collaborate in bringing to life a 
series of scenes in which the Player-­heroes are the protagonists.
The main way for the players to participate in a scene is 
simply to tell the Lore­master what their Player-­heroes 
are doing, and how they intend to do it. In game terms, 
this is called taking an action.
when to roll
To put it simply, the Lore­master should ask for a die roll only 
if there is a possibility that a player’s chosen action might fail.
If the description of an action does not leave any 
doubts about its outcome, there’s no need to make a 
roll — the action succeeds automatically.
But this is not all there is to it: resorting to a roll should be 
considered exclusively if the action or its goal fall into one 
of the following instances:
1.	 DANGER — Roll if the action is dangerous.
If the Player-­hero does not risk anything by failing, 
do not roll.
2.	 KNOWLEDGE — Roll if the action aims to obtain informa-
tion that is not immediately available.
If the knowledge that the heroes are looking for is 
not secret or hidden, do not roll.
3.	 MANIPULATION — Roll if the action intends to influence 
one or more uncooperative Lore­master characters.
If what the heroes ask of them is coherent with 
their motives, do not roll.
the one ring dice
The One Ring makes use of a specialised set of dice, including 
six 6-sided dice (also called Success Dice) and two 12-sided 
dice with two special icons (called the Feat dice).
A set of The One Ring dice (with exactly the right amount 
of dice for use with the game) is included in the Starter 
Set, but players may find it useful to bring some more as 
it will be more convenient for each player to have a set 
close at hand.
making rolls
Once the necessity for a die roll has been established, it must 
be determined who is going to make the roll, and which ability 
is most appropriate for the action.
WHO ROLLS
Determining who is going to make the roll is easy in the case 
of actions chosen by the players, but can be less so if the roll 
is being made as a reaction to something described by the 
Lore­master.
Generally, it is highly advisable to have a single player 
make a roll, except when something involves every-
one in the group. To do so, the players simply choose 
the Player-­hero who is best suited to the task at hand.
WHICH ABILITY
The ability to use depends mostly on the type of roll:
	
♦
SKILL ROLLS. By far the most common type of 
actions, Skill rolls are required whenever a Player-­hero 
attempts to do something that can be accomplished 
using one of the 18 Skills listed on a character sheet.
SCENES IN BRIEF
Scenes in game work as follows:
1.	 The Lore­master describes a situation requir-
ing the players to make decisions.
2.	 The players investigate the situation, con-
sidering their options. Once decided, they 
describe their action to the Lore­master.
3.	 The Lore­master evaluates the plan of the 
players, and adjudicates whether to just 
‘say yes’ and grant them what they want to 
achieve, or ask for a die roll.
More information about scenes is presented 
below in the Adventuring chapter, page 20.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Prologue
9
	
♦
COMBAT ROLLS. When involved in a fight, the Player-­
heroes rely mostly on their Combat Proficiencies to 
make attack rolls, and on PROTECTION rolls to avoid 
being injured when hit.
Finally, the Lore­master may ask the players to make VALOUR 
and WISDOM rolls, prompted by sources such as fear, or sor-
cery, as indicated in the text for The Adventures.
MAKE THE ROLL
Once determined the correct ability, proceed to make the 
roll employing its numerical rating (all abilities that can be 
used to make a roll are given a value ranging from 1 to 6):
1.	 Roll one Feat Die, plus a number of Success Dice 
equal to the rating of the appropriate ability (roll only 
one Feat Die if the rating is 0).
2.	 Add up the numerical results on all dice, comparing 
the total to the Target Number (TN) associated with 
the rolled ability.
In general terms, if the rolled total is equal to or higher than 
the TN, the roll is a success; otherwise, it has failed:
A successful roll indicates that the acting Player-­hero 
achieves their goal, while a failure means that some-
thing went wrong and that the desired goal was not 
achieved.
Some rules state explicitly what happens in game terms in 
case of a failure or a success — combat, for example, while 
other situations require creativity from the players and the 
Lore­master.
In any case, the consequences of both a successful and 
a failed roll always determine a well-­defined change 
in the gameplay.
REPEATING A ROLL
As a rule, players only have one attempt at anything that is 
resolved with a die roll — when they succeed or fail, they 
have done their best.
If the Lore­master allows it, a failed action can be 
attempted again by the same Player-­hero if they try again 
using a different ability, effectively representing a different 
approach to the same problem.
Of course, a Player-­hero who is given a second chance 
must always cope with the consequences of having failed the 
first time…
how to read the feat dice
Each Feat Die shows numbers ranging from 1 to 10, and two 
special icons: a Gandalf rune ( ) and the Eye of Sauron (
). 
The two icons are normally read as follows:
	
♦The  rune is the greatest result you can get on a 
Feat Die. When the die comes up showing the  
rune, the action succeeds regardless of whether the 
total result of the roll was enough to match or beat 
the TN or not.
	
♦The 
 icon is considered to be the worst result possi-
ble on a Feat Die. When the Feat Die comes up show-
ing the 
 icon, the Feat Die result counts as a zero.
how to read the success dice
Success Dice are special 6-sided dice, customised to show the 
numbers 1, 2, and 3 in outline, and the numbers 4, 5, and 
6 in solid colour. In addition, a Success icon — the Elvish 
numeral 1 ( ) — appears along with the number 6. Success 
Dice are always rolled together with one Feat Die.
Add the results on all Success Dice to the result of the 
Feat die, with any  icons rolled indicating a superior 
result on a success (see Degree of Success overleaf).
target numbers
All abilities used in the game are associated with a Target 
Number, a numerical value that the roll result must match 
or beat.
	
♦Most rolls made by the Player-­heroes are made against 
three Attribute Target Numbers (Attribute TNs, for 
short), based on their ratings in STRENGTH, HEART, 
and WITS.
	
♦Each Attribute TN in the Starter Set is equal to 18 
minus its corresponding Attribute score (the full The 
One Ring Core Rules use 20 instead).
EXAMPLE:
Scouting ahead, Paladin Took has a chance to notice a group 
of brigands setting up an ambush. He has an AWARENESS 
skill of 
 (2), so he rolls a Feat die plus two Success dice, 
adding up the results of all dice rolled. As AWARENESS 
is a STRENGTH Skill, the roll result is compared against 
Paladin’s STRENGTH TN, which is 15. With the Success 
dice showing 4 and 5, and the Feat Die an 8, Paladin’s 
player does not need to do much maths to know that the 
­Hobbit succeeded.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
10
degree of success
A roll result that achieves its Target Number (or resulted in 
the  rune) and produces one or more 
 icons is an out-
come of a superior quality — a musician performs particularly 
well, a look-­out spots enemies at a longer distance, an orator 
succeeds in galvanizing a larger audience. The greater the 
number of Success icons rolled, the better:
	
♦(—) If no  icons were scored, the action was success-
ful, but didn’t achieve anything beyond the bare mini-
mum (a success).
	
♦
 If a single  was scored, then the Player-­hero’s 
accomplishment was out of the ordinary (a great 
success).
	
♦
+ If two or more  icons were scored, the result was 
absolutely exceptional and memorable (an extraordi-
nary success).
die roll modifiers
Following are a number of variations upon the core rules of 
the game. They represent those advantages (and drawbacks!) 
that affect the Player-­heroes as the most explicit demonstra-
tion of their ability as heroes.
FAVOURED ROLLS
A Favoured roll happens when a Player-­hero possesses a spe-
cial affinity for a task.
When making a Favoured roll, players roll two Feat dice 
instead of one, keeping the best result among the two.
Typical sources of Favoured rolls are a Player-­hero’s Favoured 
Skills (see also Skills, page 14).
ILL-­FAVOURED ROLLS
The opposite of a Favoured roll, a roll is made Ill-­favoured 
when a Player-­hero is suffering from some limitation.
When making an Ill-­favoured roll, players roll two Feat 
dice instead of one, keeping the worst result among 
the two.
The sources of Ill-­favoured rolls are indicated in the included 
Adventures.
BONUS SUCCESS DICE
It is possible for a Player-­hero to be attempting something under 
favourable circumstances, or employing a particularly benefi-
cial talent. When this happens, the Player-­hero may be granted 
a bonus in the form of a number of additional Success Dice.
Bonuses are indicated in the text as gain (1d) or more, 
meaning that Player-­heroes add 1 Success die to those 
they are entitled to roll.
HOPE BONUS: A character’s Hope score is a pool of points 
representing the reserve of spiritual vigour that heroes draw 
from when confronted by difficult odds, or when a particu-
larly good result is required by the circumstances.
A Player-­hero about to make a die roll can spend 
1 Hope point to gain (1d).
Hope can be spent to gain dice on any roll made by a Player-­
hero. It is not possible to spend multiple Hope points to gain 
multiple bonus Success dice.
INSPIRATION: Certain circumstances may result in a Player-­
hero becoming temporarily Inspired. Inspired Player-­heroes 
double the benefit of spending a Hope point:
An Inspired Player-­hero who spends 1 Hope point to 
get a Hope bonus gains (2d), instead of (1d).
PENALTY SUCCESS DICE
Player-­heroes wish they were lucky enough to enjoy only 
favourable circumstances… At times, fortune seems to con-
spire against them, they may put themselves in danger by their 
own volition looking for a greater benefit, or they may have 
FAVOURED VS ILL-­FAVOURED
It is possible for a roll to be both Favoured and 
Ill-­favoured for different, conflicting reasons — 
when this happens, the roll is resolved normally 
(roll one Feat Die only), even if multiple sources 
would make a roll Favoured and only one would 
make it Ill-­favoured (or vice versa).
ILL-­FAVOURED PLAYER-­HEROES: At times, an 
ability of an adversary or another special rule may 
directly make a Player-­hero Ill-­favoured, instead 
of specifying a particular roll — when this happens, 
the unlucky adventurer is considered Ill-­favoured 
on all rolls. For example, Player-­heroes who have 
spent all their Hope points are considered to be 
Ill-­favoured on all rolls.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Prologue
11
fallen victim to some malicious power or spell. When this 
happens, a Player-­hero may suffer from a penalty.
Penalties are normally indicated in the text as lose (1d) 
or more, meaning that a Player-­hero rolls fewer Suc-
cess dice (down to a minimum of zero Success dice).
conditions
Die rolls can be modified by two special conditions that can 
affect the Player-­heroes. Conditions are recorded on the char-
acter sheet by checking the corresponding box.
WEARY
The resistance of the Player-­heroes is represented in game 
terms by their Endurance score. Heroes can lose Endurance 
in many ways, when their Endurance drops to a level equal to 
or lower than their Load score, they become Weary.
When a Weary hero is making a roll, all the Success 
Dice that come up showing a result in an outlined 
number (1, 2, or 3) are considered to have given a 
result of zero instead.
(See page 23 for more about the effects of losing Endurance 
and Load).
WOUNDED
Serious injuries can cause a hero to become Wounded. While 
losing and recovering Endurance is an everyday occurrence, 
being Wounded is a more serious predicament for an adven-
turer and will affect them for much longer.
Wounded heroes who remain active risk being 
knocked out of combat and recover lost Endurance 
points more slowly (see Resting, page 18).
DIE ROLL RESULTS
FEAT DIE
RESULT
SPECIAL
1–10
Read number 
normally
—
Success, regard-
less of TN
—
Counts as a zero
—
SUCCESS 
DICE
RESULT
SPECIAL
1–3
Read number 
normally
If Weary: counts as a 0
4–5
Read number 
normally
—
Read number 
normally
On a successful roll, 
getting one or more 
 
indicates a higher quality 
of success
detailed die roll procedure
Once the necessity of a roll has been determined, follow the 
steps below to do it.
1.	 Define what the Player-­hero is trying to achieve with 
the roll. This is important to determine its conse-
quences, both in the case of success and failure.
2.	 Select the ability to be used for the roll. Players are 
encouraged to suggest the appropriate ability. The 
difficulty for the action is based on the relevant Attri-
bute TN.
3.	 Take one Feat Die and a number of Success Dice equal 
to the rating of the chosen ability (or two Feat Dice, if 
the roll is Favoured or Ill-­favoured). Spend 1 Hope to 
gain (1d) — gain (2d) if Inspired.
4.	Gain or lose dice according to any bonuses or penalties 
that applies to the roll.
5.	 Make the roll. If the roll is Favoured, choose the best 
result on the Feat Dice, or the worst if Ill-­Favoured. If 
you roll a , the action is automatically a success.
6.	 Otherwise, all numerical dice results are added up to 
get the action result. If you are Weary, all Success Dice 
results in outline (1, 2 and 3) are ignored. If the total 
action result is equal or superior to the relevant Target 
Number, the action is a success. If the result is lower 
than the Target Number, the action has failed.
7.	 If the action is successful, the number of  results 
rolled indicates the degree of success.
BONUSES VS PENALTIES
Bonuses and penalties are cumulative — if a 
Player-­hero gains or loses dice from multi-
ple sources, simply add up all gained dice and 
subtract all lost dice. For example, if a Player-­
hero gains (1d) from one source, gains (2d) 
from another and loses (1d) from a penalty, the 
affected roll gains a final (2d).
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
12
ll Player-­heroes are defined in the game by a collec-
tion of traits and numbers, describing their physi-
cal, spiritual, and mental attributes, and the extent 
of their knowledge and capabilities. These values 
influence how they interact with the game rules.
All characters included in this Starter Set have a 
separate character sheet, a descriptive, double-­sided form — 
the front of the sheet contains all the information stats and 
the special traits of the character, while the back contains a 
quick description of their background and personality.
attributes
There are three Attributes in the game: STRENGTH, HEART, 
and WITS. These scores describe a hero’s fundamental phys-
ical, emotional, and mental capabilities:
	
♦A Player-­hero with a high STRENGTH score can be 
tough and fit, or quick and alert, or physically attrac-
tive or imposing. Every aspect of an adventurer that 
relies on vigour or physical well-­being is represented 
in the game by STRENGTH.
	
♦
HEART measures an adventurer’s capacity for emo-
tion, empathy, and enthusiasm. A Player-­hero with a 
high HEART score can be fiery, energetic, and hard 
to daunt. Activities that benefit from a passionate or 
dynamic temper may be influenced by a Player-­hero’s 
HEART score.
	
♦A Player-­hero with a high WITS rating can be clever, 
attentive, and ingenious. Any action that calls for an 
adventurer to be sharp-­witted, sensible, or wise, bene-
fits from a Player-­hero’s WITS score.
target numbers
The three Attribute ratings are used to determine a Player-­
hero’s standard TNs — the default difficulty levels of all rolls 
made to challenge the characteristics of a hero.
	
♦The STRENGTH TN is used in conjunction with all 
STRENGTH Skills, and when resolving attack rolls.
	
♦The HEART TN is used in conjunction with all HEART 
Skills and when making VALOUR rolls, for example to 
resist the effects of fear.
	
♦The WITS TN is used in conjunction with all WITS 
Skills and when making rolls of WISDOM, for example 
to resist the temptation of treasure.
CHARACTERISTICS
“… you have been chosen, and you must therefore use 
such strength and heart and wits as you have.”
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Characteristics
13
distinctive features
Distinctive Features describe aspects of an adventurer’s 
build or temper, personality traits or physical peculiarities. 
These features help players to picture their characters, and 
encourage deeper roleplaying. Players are invited to take 
into account their heroes’ Distinctive Features throughout 
the game and to use them as guidelines, in particular when 
choosing a course of action for their adventurers.
Additionally, players can invoke a Distinctive Feature 
to improve their chances to succeed at a roll using a 
Skill. When this happens, the Player-­hero is consid-
ered to be Inspired.
A Distinctive Feature can be invoked on a roll only if, based 
on its description, it is reasonably plausible for someone with 
that quality to fare better than an individual without it.
skills
Almost every action that heroes can attempt in the game is 
resolved using a Skill: whether a Player-­hero is walking across 
the length of the Shire to get back home (TRAVEL), running 
away from a threat (ATHLETICS), or listening intently to an 
orator’s speech to weigh their words (INSIGHT).
In game terms, Skills represent what Player-­heroes 
are able to do and how good they are at doing it. The 
rating of a hero in a particular Skill is indicated by 
the number of filled-­in diamond-­shaped boxes to the 
right of its name — the higher the number of dia-
monds, the better!
Skills and their use are described starting on page 14.
FAVOURED SKILLS
A number of Skills are marked as Favoured (the box to the 
left of their name is checked). Favoured Skills highlight those 
abilities that come most naturally to a Player-­hero.
All rolls made using a Favoured Skill are Favoured rolls.
SKILL CATEGORIES
Each Skill belongs to one of three categories, based on which 
Attribute TN it’s rolled against. For ease of reference, the 
Skills are organised on a character sheet in three columns 
placed right under the Attribute box they depend on.
	
♦
STRENGTH SKILLS: The Skills in this category rely on 
the Player-­hero’s physical aptitude. An adventurer with 
a high Strength score is more likely to be imposing 
(AWE), to have a clear singing voice (SONG), to be fit 
and agile (ATHLETICS), to have good sight and hear-
ing (AWARENESS, HUNTING), and to possess skilful 
hands (CRAFT).
	
♦
HEART SKILLS: The Skills in this category depend 
on the Player-­hero’s force of spirit. An adventurer 
with a high Heart score may be a charismatic leader 
(ENHEARTEN, BATTLE), an energetic guide (TRAVEL), 
a gracious gentleman (COURTESY), be able to read 
the hearts of others (INSIGHT), or to understand their 
hurt and how to heal them (HEALING).
	
♦
WITS SKILLS: The Skills in this category depend on the 
Player-­hero’s mental aptitude. A hero with a high Wits 
value will quickly learn witty oratory (PERSUADE), the 
arts of a burglar (STEALTH), show attentiveness (SCAN, 
EXPLORE), and will be clever and studious (RIDDLE, 
LORE).
combat proficiencies
Combat Proficiencies express how well Player-­heroes conduct 
themselves when engaged in battle. Rolls made using Combat 
Proficiencies are resolved in the same way as Skill rolls, rolling 
a Feat Die and a number of Success Dice equal to the rank 
possessed in the Combat Proficiency used — rolling only a 
Feat die with rank 0.
Combat Proficiencies are rolled against the STRENGTH 
TN when making Attack rolls (see Combat, page 22).
The various Combat Proficiencies are presented starting on 
page 17.
endurance, hope and parry
These additional stats are connected to a hero’s main Attri-
bute scores. Endurance and Hope are the fundamental 
resources that keep an adventurer going — Endurance points 
are lost while engaging in strenuous activities, Hope points 
are spent voluntarily by players when their Player-­heroes try 
to overcome their limits. The Parry score sets the Target Num-
ber for all attack rolls targeting a Player-­hero.
More information on how Endurance and Hope work is 
found on page 18. Parry is explained in the Combat chapter, 
starting on page 22.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
14
skills
“There is food in the wild,” said Strider; “berry, root, and herb;  
and I have some skill as a hunter at need.”
The 18 Skills cover wide areas of knowledge and ability, 
enabling players and the Lore­master to resolve most situa-
tions encountered during play.
The following list presents them in alphabetical order. 
A brief description is provided, to help identify the actions 
that can be accomplished using each Skill.
ATHLETICS
ATHLETICS is a broad Skill, covering most physical activities 
including; running, leaping, climbing, and swimming.
AWARENESS
The AWARENESS Skill represents a hero’s readiness to react and 
the ability to notice something unexpected, out of the ordi-
nary, or hard to detect. A high Skill score reflects both keen 
senses and the experience to understand what is seen or heard.
AWE
This Skill measures the capacity to evoke respect in onlook-
ers, and determines the impression the Player-­heroes make 
on someone they meet for the first time. It can be used to 
instil wonderment, admiration, or even fear. AWE arises from 
a hero’s native charisma, but can also be engineered by a 
dramatic entrance or impressive attire.
BATTLE
A rating in this Skill shows a firm grasp of the rules of battle 
and the capability to maneuver appropriately when involved 
in a violent confrontation. The BATTLE Skill can be used 
to gain an advantage when fighting against a group of foes.
COURTESY
The Free Peoples recognise common norms of decency and 
ancient conventions of behaviour. Observing them demon-
strates respect and is a way of quickly establishing a friendly 
footing even with strangers.
CRAFT
The CRAFT Skill doesn’t really cover the whole range of abili-
ties of smiths, wrights, and other artisans, but reflects a talent 
for making or mending things by hand. CRAFT can be used to 
repair the wheel of a cart, or construct an improvised raft with 
wood found on a river shore, or to start a fire on a windy hill.
ENHEARTEN
Player-­heroes can use the ENHEARTEN Skill to instil posi-
tive feelings in others, urging them to act on the matter at 
hand. They achieve this mainly through example, charisma, 
and personal conviction, rather than through the effective 
use of words (which falls under PERSUADE). This Skill can 
be used on individuals, but is particularly effective in influ-
encing crowds.
EXPLORE
Player-­heroes rely on the EXPLORE Skill when they move 
through an unfamiliar area of the Wild. An EXPLORE 
roll may be required during a journey to find out where 
the Company is heading, or to get back on track after a 
detour; to cope with adverse natural hazards; to create paths 
through the wilderness or to choose a suitable place to set 
up camp.
HEALING
The knowledge of how to relieve pain and apply remedies to 
restore health to the suffering is an ancient one, and treat-
ments differ from culture to culture. However, almost all tra-
ditions agree on the treatment of serious injuries, which must 
be tended immediately to keep from worsening.
The HEALING Skill includes bone setting and the use of 
herbs or salves.
HUNTING
Knowing how to hunt is a fundamental skill, shared by most 
cultures of Middle-­earth. A HUNTING roll may be required 
when pursuing a creature through wild areas, or to follow 
tracks and identify a quarry by its spoor. The HUNTING Skill 
also covers preparing traps and the training and use of hunt-
ing dogs or birds.
INSIGHT
INSIGHT represents the ability to see beyond appearances 
and to recognise the hidden thoughts and beliefs of people. 
INSIGHT does not reveal if someone is lying, but the infor-
mation it yields can be used to draw useful conclusions about 
people’s motives.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Characteristics
15
LORE
LORE expresses a love for learning: be it a fascination with 
descriptions of distant lands or an interest in family geneal-
ogy. Whenever an action involves knowledge of some kind, 
a LORE test is required.
Player-­heroes are considered to be knowledgeable in the 
traditions of their own people, and so the Lore­master should 
rarely require a player to make a roll for information regard-
ing them.
PERSUADE
This Skill allows the Player-­heroes to apply their reasoning to 
convince other individuals of an idea or course of action. It 
can be used to influence small groups of listeners, but only if 
used in an appropriate context, such as a common hall. Per-
suasion requires more time than other Personality Skills, but 
can have a more lasting impact on other characters’ actions.
RIDDLE
Owing its name to the ancient game, the RIDDLE Skill rep-
resents the ability to draw conclusions from seemingly uncon-
nected scraps of information by deduction, reasoning, and 
intuition. Adventurers also rely on RIDDLE whenever they are 
forced to talk about a subject but prefer to conceal part of 
what they know; for example, to tell something about them-
selves without revealing their identity.
As an accepted custom among many cultures, speaking 
in riddles is usually allowed among strangers meeting for the 
first time and wanting to speak guardedly. This Skill is also 
used to gain helpful insight from a spoken or written riddle.
SCAN
Player-­heroes can use the SCAN Skill when examining some-
thing closely or attentively. This Skill allows a Player-­hero to 
skim through a book to locate a piece of relevant information, 
look for concealed doors or hidden inscriptions, recognise a 
familiar face in a crowd, or locate a set of tracks on the ground. 
SCAN rolls are generally initiated by the players rather than 
the Lore­master. One roll is required for each inspection of 
a small area, such as a room. AWARENESS, rather than SCAN, 
is used to see if a hero passively notices something.
SONG
Hobbits and Men, Elves and Dwarves, even Goblins and 
maybe Orcs: all creatures of Middle-­earth celebrate by playing 
music and singing songs. Great deeds and grim misfortunes 
are remembered in verse, and pleasant or comic stories are 
told to ease spirits and find comfort.
The SONG Skill is used to recite poems, sing songs, or 
play instruments suitable to a character’s Culture. It can also 
be used to learn new works or create original compositions.
STEALTH
Player-­heroes resort to STEALTH whenever they need to act in a 
furtive or secret way. The Skill includes hiding, moving 
quietly, and shadowing others. These activities often 
rely on quickness and precision, so a stealthy 
Player-­hero combines practised caution with 
the ability to judge the right moment to 
take a chance.
TRAVEL
In the Third Age, the cities, 
villages, and towns of Middle-­
earth are often separated 
by many leagues of wild 
or deserted areas. A roll 
of TRAVEL may let a 
Player-hero estimate the 
length of a journey, 
read a map or evalu-
ate whether a stranger 
on the road can be 
approached safely.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
16
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Characteristics
17
combat proficiencies
Legolas shot two through the throat. Gimli hewed the legs from under another 
that had sprung up on Balin’s tomb. Boromir and Aragorn slew many.
There are four different Combat Proficiencies in The One 
Ring: AXES, BOWS, SPEARS, and SWORDS. Each one represents 
a level of familiarity with a number of weapons of similar kind, 
allowing a Player-­hero to attack using any weapon covered by 
that specific Proficiency.
The characteristics of all war gear carried by the Pre­
generated Heroes are detailed on their character sheets, or 
on the illustrated Item Cards included in the Starter Set.
AXES
Axes and other bashing weapons are often preferred to swords 
by warriors who favour a more brutal approach to fighting. 
Historically, the axe is the weapon of choice for most Dwarves, 
and for their folk it surpasses the sword in both nobility and 
respect. Dwarven weaponsmiths apply their cunning to mak-
ing axes of many different shapes and uses, and from metals 
of various colours.
The AXES Combat Proficiency allows a Player-­hero 
to use an axe, a great axe, a long-­hafted axe, but also 
a mattock.
BOWS
A traditional hunting weapon, the bow is also commonly used 
in warfare. Made from a single piece of wood, or from a com-
position of wood, horn, or even metal, bows are a versatile 
weapon. They can be used during sieges, from horseback, in 
dense woodland, or in the open field. Archers usually carry 
another weapon to draw when the enemy gets closer; they sel-
dom carry shields, as they can’t use them when shooting a bow.
The BOWS Combat Proficiency enables a Player-­hero 
to make ranged attacks using a bow or a great bow.
SPEARS
The spear is arguably the most widespread weapon across 
Middle-­earth, arming kings and soldiers, riders and infantry. 
It is often no more than a long wooden shaft, tipped by a 
leaf-­shaped metal head, but some spears are works of majes-
tic artisanship, valuable heirlooms of noble households. The 
length of a spear varies according to the use it is designed 
for. Spears can be wielded one or two-­handed to thrust and 
lunge, cast to pierce from a distance, or used from horseback 
as lances. Warriors equipped with a spear typically use it in 
conjunction with a shield, and they usually carry an additional 
weapon, such as a sword or axe.
The SPEARS Combat Proficiency allows a hero to make 
ranged and close combat attacks using a short spear or 
a spear, or to fight in close combat using a great spear.
SWORDS
The sword with a straight blade has always been the weapon 
of choice among free Men and Elves. A mark of nobility or 
rank, swords of superior make are passed down by generations 
of warriors, and arms of ancient lineage are often imbued 
with spells and curses, the bane of the servants of the Shadow. 
Swords vary in size, shape, and quality as diverse as the folks 
that craft them. Many malevolent creatures have devised 
swords after their own fashion, usually crude counterfeits of 
those made by Men and Elves.
The SWORDS Combat Proficiency enables a Player-­
hero to attack in close combat using short swords, swords, 
and long swords.
BRAWLING ATTACKS
Adventurers who must leave behind their trusted 
weapons may find themselves forced to fight 
unarmed, or to rely on a simple dagger, or even 
a thrown stone. When this happens, they rely on 
their martial training to save themselves.
	
♦
Player-­heroes performing an attack while 
unarmed, or using an improvised weapon, 
roll a number of dice equal to their highest 
Combat Proficiency, but lose (1d).
	
♦
Unarmed attacks have a Damage rating of 1, 
and cannot cause a Piercing Blow (see Com-
bat, page 23).
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
18
endurance and hope
Health and hope grew strong in them, and they were content with each good day 
as it came, taking pleasure in every meal, and in every word and song.
Endurance and Hope are what keep the Player-­heroes on the 
road, providing them with reserves of energy and with that 
additional momentum that sometimes is the only chance a 
hero has to prevail.
During play, heroes lose Endurance points as the result 
of exertion and of suffering harm, and they spend Hope 
voluntarily when they must succeed against difficult odds.
The maximum Endurance and Hope values of the characters 
are shown on their character sheets, while the Current Endur-
ance and Current Hope boxes are used to keep track of any 
changes that occur during play (alternatively, players can track 
them using different coloured counters, dice or glass beads).
endurance
Endurance represents a Player-­hero’s resistance and is taken into 
account whenever an adventurer is subjected to some form of 
harm. In particular, Player-­heroes lose Endurance during com-
bat, when they suffer physical damage from any other source, 
or as a consequence of any strenuous task requiring great effort.
Player-­heroes whose Endurance is reduced to zero drop 
unconscious, and wake up after one hour with 1 Endur-
ance point (unless they are also Wounded, see Resting).
WEARY
Used in conjunction with a hero’s carried Load, Endurance 
determines when the weight and bulk of any equipment starts 
to affect a Player-­hero’s performance.
Heroes become Weary if their Current Endurance 
score becomes equal to or lower than their total Load.
When this happens, check the Weary box on the character 
sheet. Player-­heroes remain Weary until their Endurance 
score rises above their Load again.
RESTING
Player-­heroes regain lost Endurance points by resting. The 
extent of the Player-­heroes’ recovery depends on whether 
they take a short rest, or a prolonged one.
SHORT REST: Under most circumstances, a day of adventur-
ing allows for a maximum of one short rest, usually in the 
middle of the day. If a precise timing account is desired, a 
short rest may be said to correspond to at least one hour of 
inactivity.
With a short rest, adventurers recover a number of lost 
Endurance points equal to their STRENGTH (Wounded 
heroes do not recover any points at all).
PROLONGED REST: Under normal circumstances, the group 
of Player-­heroes is allowed to take a single Prolonged Rest 
each day, (usually, a night’s sleep). The Lore­master may allow 
the group to take more than one Prolonged Rest if the Player-­
heroes are recovering in a safe and comfortable place.
Player-­heroes taking a prolonged rest recover all lost 
Endurance points (Wounded heroes recover a number 
of points equal to their STRENGTH).
hope
Hope is a hero’s reserve of spiritual fortitude and positivity. 
A hopeful character can keep going when physically stronger 
heroes have already succumbed to despair.
During play, players can spend Hope to gain a Hope 
bonus on any die roll, or to trigger the effects of certain 
Cultural Virtues.
Player-­heroes whose Hope score is reduced to zero 
are spiritually drained — it is impossible for them to 
find the energy required to push themselves beyond 
their limits.
RECOVERING HOPE
Recovering Hope points indicates that the Player-­heroes are 
reaffirming their lost sense of confidence.
	
♦Player-­heroes who are down to zero Hope in the 
course of an adventure recover a single point of Hope 
once they take a Prolonged Rest.
	
♦All Player-­heroes recover a number of Hope points 
equal to their HEART score between adventures.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Characteristics
19
valour and wisdom
“There is more in you of good than you know, child of the kindly West.  
Some courage and some wisdom, blended in measure.”
The heroic stature of an adventurer can be measured in dif-
ferent ways. The One Ring uses two gauges to show this: WIS-
DOM and VALOUR.
WISDOM expresses the Player-­heroes’ trust in their own 
capabilities, their self-­confidence and capacity for good judge-
ment. VALOUR is a measure of a hero’s courage, as tempered 
by dangerous deeds. Individuals of valour are willing to place 
themselves in danger for the safety of others.
The Lore­master may require the Player-­heroes to make 
a roll, testing their WISDOM or VALOUR.
When this happens, such rolls are resolved as usual, 
rolling one Feat Die and a number of Success Dice 
equal to the appropriate rating in the challenged abil-
ity — The difficulty is the HEART TN for rolls based on 
VALOUR, and the WITS TN for rolls based on WISDOM.
rewards
Rewards represent the characteristics of such high-­quality 
weapons and defensive gear, priceless instruments of war 
given to heroes by their own folk or family, or by generous 
lords honouring them by letting them choose a weapon or a 
suit of armour from their personal armoury.
The Rewards earned by the Pregenerated Heroes are 
fully explained on their character sheet.
virtues
Virtues are special abilities that complement a hero’s arsenal 
of Skills and Combat Proficiencies, describing aptitudes that 
come naturally to an adventurer, or that arise through time 
and practice. Much more than simple talents, Virtues define 
the heroic stature of the Player-­heroes.
The Virtues practiced by the Pregenerated Heroes are 
fully explained on their character sheet.
useful items
Any tool, instrument, or device carried by a Player-­hero to 
perform one or more specific tasks is a useful item. Things 
like a hammer, or a hunting knife, or flint and steel to start 
a fire, and so on.
Useful items are listed on a Player-­hero’s character sheet. 
To determine if they gain a Player-­hero an advantage, they 
are associated with a Skill.
If a Player-­hero is making a roll outside of combat 
using a Skill associated with a useful item, and the 
Lore­master deems that this should grant the hero an 
advantage, the Player-­hero gains (1d). Only one item 
can benefit the same die roll.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
20
ADVENTURING
Even the good plans of wise wizards like Gandalf and of 
good friends like Elrond go astray sometimes when you are 
off on dangerous adventures over the Edge of the Wild…
he One Ring is played as a series of sessions, com-
parable to the episodes of an ongoing tv show; 
usually, two or three sessions are played as part of 
a longer ‘story’, called an adventure. During each 
session it is the job of the Lore­master to challenge the play-
ers, putting them in difficult circumstances, setting fiendish 
riddles for them to solve, and confronting them with formi-
dable opponents.
The gameplay is a dynamic narrative, as the players 
take action to explore the situations they encounter. The 
Lore­master then describes what happens as a result of their 
actions, and the players again react to the new circumstances, 
and so on.
The Lore­master keeps the story flowing through a mix-
ture of preparation and improvisation.
how adventures work
An average adventure should occupy the Lore­master and 
the players for about two or three sessions of play, with each 
session clocking in at around 3 hours of gaming.
Generally speaking, every single session tends to follow 
the same structure:
1.	 Introduction
2.	 Scenes
3.	 End of the Session
1. INTRODUCTION
If the session is the first one of an adventure, the Lore­master 
presents the current situation to the players. This usually sets 
a date or time of the year (when), a location (where), and 
defines an introductory situation (what) that includes infor-
mation that allows for the involvement of the Company (why).
If it’s not the first session of play, then the opening scene 
picks up from where the adventure broke off at the end of 
the previous session.
THE ADVENTURES
The five, ready-­to-­play scenarios presented in The 
Adventures have been created expressly for this 
publication. They are potentially playable using 
the full rules for The One Ring, but they have been 
written specifically with the participation of the 
Pregenerated characters in mind. This notwith-
standing, the guidelines presented in this chapter 
may still prove useful to a Lore­master intending 
to play them.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Adventuring
21
2. SCENES
Once a session has started, the gameplay transitions from 
one scene to another, with each scene describing a situation 
requiring the players to make meaningful decisions.
Each scene can vary in duration from less than an 
hour of play time (a short but meaningful encounter), 
up to the entire length of the session (an important 
gathering taking many hours of game time to be com-
pleted). Between a number of main scenes and sec-
ondary scenes, a session of play should not last more 
than three or four hours.
3. END OF A SESSION
When the time allocated for the game session is up, the Lore­
master and the players face two possible situations:
	
♦If the session ends without the players reaching a satis-
factory conclusion, the gameplay will resume at a later 
date with another session. When the playing group 
meets again, the Lore­master starts by summarising 
what happened in the previous one.
	
♦If, on the contrary, the current narrative arc has 
reached its conclusion, the Lore­master draws the final 
curtain on the gaming session. The adventure is over. 
Time to plan for the next!
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
22
combat
There was a ring and clatter as the Company drew their swords.
Even in a peaceful land like the Shire, combat may be the sad 
but unavoidable culmination of a scene. Should a fight erupt, 
the Lore­master and the players must follow the rules pre-
sented in this section to make the fight a momentous event.
Once a combat encounter is initiated, the following 
steps must be applied in order to keep the action 
flowing.
opening volleys
If the Player-­heroes and their opponents are separated by 
a distance, at the start of a fight all combatants are allowed 
to make ranged attacks before combat at close quarters is 
initiated.
The Lore­master must determine how many volleys to 
allow, based on the distance separating the fighters — under 
most circumstances, all combatants are entitled to at least 
one volley using a bow or a thrown weapon. If the distance 
is greater, then the Lore­master might allow combatants to 
let loose two volleys, or even more.
All volley attacks are resolved as normal ranged attacks 
(see next page). Normally, the volley exchange is 
resolved with the Player-­heroes launching their vol-
leys first, unless the Lore­master considers the circum-
stances to favour the opposition.
When the opening volleys are completed, the combatants 
cover the distance that separates them and begin fighting 
at close quarters.
close quarters rounds
Once fighting at close quarters is initiated, the gameplay is 
broken down into a cycle of rounds, played one after the 
other until the end of the battle.
Each round follows the sequence set out below:
1.	 Stance: The Player-­heroes choose their stances.
2.	 Engagement: All combatants in Close Combat are 
paired with one or more opponents.
3.	 Attack Rolls Resolution: The actions of all combat-
ants are resolved, with those fighting in close combat 
going first.
1. STANCE
All Player-­heroes select whether they will fight the round in 
Close Combat, or Ranged Combat — Player-­heroes can choose 
freely to fight in Close Combat at the start of each round, 
while they are allowed to fight in Ranged Combat only if 
there are at least two other adventurers fighting in Close 
Combat.
Fighters in Close Combat exchange blows in the thick 
of the fight, using swords, axes and other close com-
bat weapons, while those engaged in Ranged Com-
bat stay back, using ranged weapons like bows or 
spears, and can be targeted only by attackers using 
similar weapons.
2. ENGAGEMENT
At the start of each round, Player-­heroes fighting in Close 
Combat must choose one or more opponents to engage. 
If all opponents are already engaged, Player-­heroes with-
out an adversary must join another Player-­hero fighting 
an enemy.
Player-­heroes fighting in Ranged Combat cannot be 
engaged in Close Combat, and can only be attacked by ene-
mies using ranged weapons.
STANCE CARDS
This Starter Set box includes a set of stance cards 
—these are meant to be used with The One Ring 
core rulebook. The full rules for fighting and trav-
elling allow the players to choose a more specific 
stance during battles, and to assign a role to each 
Player-­hero during a journey.
Players wishing to use the Stance cards can still 
do so, knowing that Forward, Open and Defensive 
are all Close Combat stances, and that Rearward 
is the Ranged Combat stance.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

Adventuring
23
3. ATTACK ROLLS RESOLUTION
Unless differently specified, the attacks of all combatants are 
resolved with the Player-­heroes going first. When all Player-­
heroes have resolved their attacks, the Lore­master will resolve 
those of their adversaries. Close Combat attack rolls are 
resolved first, then all Ranged Attack rolls follow.
An attack is a die roll made using the Combat Proficiency 
corresponding to the weapon used.
	
♦The difficulty of all attack rolls by the Player-­heroes is 
based on their STRENGTH TN, modified by the Parry 
rating of the targeted enemy.
	
♦The difficulty of all attack rolls made by adversaries 
against Player-­heroes are equal to the target hero’s 
Parry score instead.
A successful attack roll inflicts damage in the form of an 
Endurance Loss based on the weapon used, and may inflict 
additional Special Damage types based on the Degree of Suc-
cess of the roll. Finally, attacks may cause more long-­lasting 
injuries if a Piercing Blow is scored.
MORE ENEMIES THAN HEROES
If there are more enemies than heroes, it is 
possible that there will be enemies left when 
everyone fighting in Close Combat has engaged 
an adversary. If this happens, the Lore­master 
chooses whether the ‘spare’ enemies engage a 
Player-­hero who is already fighting in a Close 
Combat stance, or stand back to attack with a 
ranged weapon. Enemies who stand back to use 
a ranged weapon may attack any Player-­hero 
involved in the fight.
ENDURANCE LOSS
When a melee or ranged attack roll succeeds, the target suf-
fers an immediate loss of Endurance equal to the Damage 
rating of the weapon used.
	
♦Player-­heroes who see their Endurance decrease to 
match or go below their total Load score become 
Weary; if their Endurance is reduced to zero, they 
drop unconscious instead.
	
♦Adversaries do not normally become Weary due to 
Endurance loss, but are normally eliminated upon 
reaching zero Endurance.
SPECIAL DAMAGE
If a successful attack roll produces one or more Success icons 
( ), they can be used to trigger one or more special results. 
Each heading below indicates how many Success icons are 
required to trigger the corresponding effect. Multiple Suc-
cess icons can be used to trigger different results, or the same 
one multiple times.
	
♦
HEAVY BLOW — ANY WEAPON (
): You have hit your 
opponent with great force and precision — Spend 1 
Success icon to inflict to your target an additional loss of 
Endurance equal to your STRENGTH rating (adversaries use 
their Attribute Level instead).
	
♦
FEND OFF — ANY CLOSE COMBAT WEAPON (
): You 
exploit your successful attack to place yourself in an 
advantageous position — Spend 1 Success icon to gain a 
Parry modifier of +2 against the next attack aimed at you.
	
♦
PIERCE — BOWS AND SPEARS (
), SWORDS (
): You 
have hit a less-­protected part of the adversary’s body 
— Spend 1 Success icon to modify a Feat die numerical result 
of your attack by +2, thus possibly triggering a Piercing Blow 
(
 and 
 results are unaffected).
PIERCING BLOWS
In addition to causing the loss of Endurance points, any 
success­ful attack may inflict a Piercing Blow.
An attack roll produces a Piercing Blow on a 10 or  
result on the Feat Die.
Characters hit by a Piercing Blow must immediately roll one 
Feat Die, plus a number of Success Dice equal to the PRO-
TECTION value of the armour worn (a PROTECTION Test).
The Target Number for the roll is equal to the Injury 
rating of the weapon used by the attacker. If the roll 
fails, then the target of the attack has received a life-­
threatening blow — a Wound (see below).
James Smith (Order #47812382)

THE RULES
24
WOUNDS
Most adversaries are killed outright when Wounded (unless 
specified differently in their description). Player-­heroes, on 
the other hand, can resist being Wounded once without seri-
ous consequences, but risk more if injured a second time.
When Player-­heroes are Wounded for the first time 
they check the Wounded box on their character sheet.
As seen under Endurance on page 18, Player-­heroes whose 
Wounded box is checked recover Endurance slowly.
Player-­heroes who are wounded a second time (they 
receive a Wound when their Wounded box was already 
checked) see their Endurance drop to zero, and they 
fall unconscious. This second Wound is not recorded 
on the character sheet.
Player-­heroes recover from their injuries between adventures, 
or in a week. They are allowed to reduce the severity of their 
Wound with a HEALING roll:
A successful HEALING roll reduces the time required 
to recover by 1 day, plus 1 day for each  icon scored 
(to a minimum of 1 day).
Each hero may be administered a successful HEALING roll 
only once. A failed roll cannot be repeated until at least a 
day has passed, as the failure of the treatment isn’t immedi-
ately apparent.
SERIOUS INJURIES AND DEATH
The rules about injuries as detailed in this Starter 
Set are meant to evoke a mood that is more 
appropriate to stories as those presented in The 
Adventures — adventuring in the Shire is meant 
to be exciting, maybe thrilling, but never life-­
threatening. ­Hobbit adventurers and their like 
are meant to return home with an exciting tale 
to tell to their many relations, not to be mourned 
after their demise.
OTHER ACTIONS THAN ATTACKS
Players may propose to do something different from 
an attack roll, something unusual or unexpected (this 
is usually a sign that they are enjoying the game, and 
the Lore­master should encourage it wherever possible).
The factors to consider when resolving actions other 
than the attack rolls are time, difficulty, and consequences.
	
♦Can you perform the action in one round, or will it 
take more time? The Lore­master must decide, but 
for such cases consider a round to last a maximum of 
30 seconds.
	
♦
Does the action require a die roll? If so, success or 
failure must have clear consequences. Generally, if 
succeeding at an action will grant an advantage to 
the Player-­heroes, a failure should cause a disadvan-
tage of equal importance.
TALKING WITH THE ENEMY
Often, the Company faces creatures capable of speech. 
Orcs and the most intelligent among Trolls speak a 
debased version of the Common Tongue, for example, 
and Dragons can outwit in conversation the smartest 
adventurer. This means that violence need not be the 
only way to survive a combat…
Some good roleplaying and clever thinking might 
allow the Player-­heroes to find a way out of a dangerous 
situation, for example, tricking an excessively powerful 
enemy into thinking that the heroes are much stronger 
than they really are, or by outright deceiving them. Think 
of Gandalf tricking the Stone-­Trolls, or Bilbo challeng-
ing Gollum at the Riddle Game, and then entertaining 
Smaug with a clever conversation. But a wicked Lore­
master should remember that the opposite is also pos-
sible — a cunning adversary might find a way to trick the 
Player-­heroes and lure them into a trap, or put them in a 
disadvantageous position using only words.
James Smith (Order #47812382)

James Smith (Order #47812382)

James Smith (Order #47812382)
