Complication

A desperate aristocratic woman has lost her child in the marketplace but is doubtlessly nearby.
A peddler in brightly dyed clothing accosts you, insisting you nicked one of his goods.
A prisoner escapes from a nearby watchtower and runs toward you, chased by sentries ordering you to stop them.
A magician unleashes pyromantic green flames that mesmerize the crowd and threaten to distract you.
You step in horse manure, the stench rising from where you just ran.
You forget to secure your coin purse as you rush through the city streets.
A throng of doomsaying fanatics whip themselves and others in a show of piety between you and your quarry.
Hostlers block the road unloading mead; a barrel breaks free and rolls after you.
A beautiful passerby catches your eye—then their beefy suitor catches you staring.
A runaway horse barrels around the corner straight at you.
A band of beggars accosts you.
You lose sight of your quarry at a split in the alleys and must choose left or right.
A band of lost souls on pilgrimage beg for coin in the pass
A wealthy merchant pleads for help hoisting trunks onto a rented coach
A minor rockslide tumbles from the cliffsides, threatening your path
Leafless bushes snag your coin purse and spill its contents
A treacherous switchback crumbles and the road nearly vanishes beneath you
A shepherd boy begs you to rescue a young mountain goat down a steep slope
A black-furred mountain cat emerges from a cavern, growling to threaten you
Hostile mountain folk confront you and try to drive you off
The path gives way; you slide and a dislodged boulder begins rolling after you
Loose stones riddle the trail and pebbles wedge under your boot heel
You’re wedged between rock and wall, fearing you can’t free yourself
You scramble up a cliff face and risk losing your grip and falling behind
A dying man begs for help from a cage, the key lying just below it
A fork in the road confounds your path
A frightened huntsman with illicit game warns you to come no closer
Thick choking weeds or a fallen tree bar the way and slow you down
A traveler is pinned beneath a wagon with a broken axle while a companion wails for aid
A hill drops precipitously into a steep slope ahead
Weary villagers in poverty throng around you demanding coin
A narrow footbridge breaks beneath you and your coin purse spills out
A hunter in a tree stand aims down at you, perhaps mistaking you for prey
The howling of frothing, maddened dogs approaches down the road
Desperate nomads stagger from a sandstorm pleading for water
An ancient stone circle promises a knowledgeable spirit if you dare to summon it
A confusing warren of tunnels branches ahead; your quarry vanished down one
A desperate aristocratic bride searches the sewers for her lost ring and begs you to help
Hungry sewer dwellers accost you, demanding coin
A fountain of sludge erupts from a drainage pipe, drenching you in sewer slime
Gong farmers block the passage while unclogging a sluice and insist you wait
A filthy, unwashed baby lies helpless in the muck, threatened by sewer rats
A sewer inspector blames you for ruining his papers and demands a fine
Disorienting echoes scatter your sense of direction and separate you from companions
A sudden surge of sewer water roars across the passage, blocking your way
A rusted portcullis slowly closes with the flow, threatening to trap the route
Something wet and slippery coils around your arm from a dark drain
You slip into waist-deep night soil as your coin purse bobs away among the filth
