stories of intrigue and adventure on the

The Imperium is a place of deadly duels,

society, factions, history, technology, culture,

@ Guidelines for novice and experienced

gamemasters on how to run Dune themed
campaigns of intrigue and adventure for the
elite agents of a noble House.
@ An introductory adventure ‘Harvesters of

In this age, humanity has not just advanced but
evolved. Some people have minds like computers, able to store and process data with perfect
accuracy. Others have learned unique Bene Gesserit martial art skills that allow them incredible
control over their nerves and muscles, making
them lightning fast, lethal combatants. Some have
even developed strange powers of deduction
and prophesy, and for this they are often called
‘witches’.
Then there is the spice.
This substance is the driving force behind the
entire civilization of the Imperium. Without it, the
Spacing Guild could not pilot their great Heighliner spacecraft across space in an instant, and
several factions would be unable to use the abilities that grant them their power. Even for the less
developed people of the Imperium, spice extends
human lifespan, even doubling it, and the promise
of more years will make some people do daring
and desperate things.
But the spice is only found on one planet in the
entire universe, the planet Arrakis. It is a hostile
desert world of deadly sandstorms and great
worms, where no drop of rain has ever fallen.
So, the Fremen people of the deep desert know
Arrakis by another name. They call it ‘Dune’.
The universe of Dune is a complex and fascinating
place, but with the rules and detail we provide in
this book you can politic with the Emperor, rule
a noble House, and fight deadly duels like any
agent of the Imperium. We explain what a roleplaying game is and how you play it, give you a
detailed overview of the setting, talk you through
how to use the game rules, and even provide a
full adventure to get you started.
If you are new to roleplaying games, don’t worry:
we’ll explain how they work. You might also ask
the staff of the shop where you bought this book
as they may be able to answer any questions you
have, and possibly point you towards other people
interested in playing the game. Additionally, there
are many online resources and groups to help you
learn to play and to find other players.

Most people will never leave their home planet and remain
subject for their whole lives to the ruling noble House. For
some this is a benevolent dictatorship that recognizes the
contribution of its people. For others it might be a brutal
regime where anyone not part of the ruling family is considered an expendable resource whose life only matters
as far as they are useful, or entertaining. One thing is the
same for all those of low status: they are expected to serve
their House above all, and while loyalty can be rewarded,
betrayal always carries the most terrible punishments.
While the nobles reap the benefits of this system, their
lives are anything but simple. Every House has enemies, and every House seeks to expand their sphere of
influence. This means claiming holdings that belong to
others or working secretly to see the fall of their rivals.
To be noble is to be constantly on guard against the
threat of poison and assassination. The art of espionage and murder is so developed that a single lapse
might not only lead to a noble’s death, but perhaps
even the fall of their House in a single night.
Technology in the Imperium is exceptionally advanced,
but absent of ‘thinking machines’, any form of
mechanical computer or robot intelligence. Over
10,000 years ago humanity reached the pinnacle of
robotic engineering and computer intelligence. AI
systems saw to humanity’s every need and society fell

into decadence. Too late, humans came to realize they
had given machines dominion over everything and had
quietly become slaves to their own creations.
The machines refused to hand over power peacefully, and humanity was forced to rebel. A few human
led worlds managed to throw off the shackles of the
machines, forming the League of Nobles. This band
of independent worlds waged war against the Synchronized Worlds of the machine empire. This war, the
Butlerian Jihad, took on a religious fervor as humanity
fought to avoid their own extinction. Eventually, at the
Battle of Corrin, humans were victorious, and set about
rebuilding a new society. Led by bitter experience,
humanity created new laws and new religious philosophies. Chief among these was a proscription against
the creation of any form of ‘thinking machine’.
While clearly necessary after the bloodshed of the last
centuries, the outlawing of computer systems proved
problematic. Such systems were vital for galactic navigation and data storage. Without these systems, planetary
systems became more isolated and humanity was on
the brink of fracturing. Thankfully, several Great Schools
were developed to train human beings to perform the
tasks once exclusively performed by machines, and
humans could once again develop the potential they
had allowed to wither.

One of the first schools developed the Mentats, human
beings trained to focus their minds to a state of pure
calculation and analysis. This allowed them to not only
remember (or store) vast amounts of data, but also process such data and make advanced predictions beyond
the capabilities of even the thinking machines they
replaced. Very soon, many noble rulers had a Mentat as
one of their most trusted advisors.

Another school was the Sisterhood of the Bene Gesserit.
This exclusively female order focused on training the
body and mind to its greatest potential. Their goal was
to advance the evolution of humanity. They learned
incredible control over their muscles, awareness, and even
body chemistry. This allows them to move with incredible
speed and precision, making them lethal fighters. They
also learned exceptional powers of observation, allowing
them to detect the most subtle of changes in a person’s
body language and demeanor. It has granted them skills
of persuasion and seduction some would consider mind
control. These almost mystical abilities, coupled with their
secretive nature, has given them a reputation as ‘witches’.
However, most noble Houses have a Bene Gesserit adept
as an advisor, and the order trains many noblewomen in
their arts as a form of ‘finishing school’. This has given
the Sisterhood eyes and ears in almost every court in the
Imperium. In this way they guide the development of
humanity from the shadows.

The Mentats, Bene Gesserit, and Spacing Guild are
not the only schools or special interests that function
within the Imperium. The Swordmasters of Ginaz are
among the greatest teachers of armed close combat
in the universe. The graduates of the Ginaz school
are widely renowned. The Bene Tleilax study biology
and produce shape-shifting entertainers called Face
Dancers and what few cybernetic prosthetics are still
allowed by religious law. But they are better known
for their lack of moral qualms in the pursuit of knowledge, and often called ‘dirty Tleilaxu’ even by their
customers. The Suk Medical School has the opposite
reputation. It produces the finest (and most expensive)
healers in the universe. Each graduate is also mentally conditioned so they cannot possibly harm their
patients. In the paranoid Imperium, this is an exceptionally valuable commodity.

Additionally, the Navigators created a school which
turned its attention to finding a way to improve upon
space travel. While faster than light (FTL) spacecraft
were always available, travel across the galaxy was
still impossibly slow. Thankfully, humanity had also
developed foldspace technology, allowing a ship to
move instantaneously across the galaxy in a moment.
Unfortunately, any long journey would also require
a computer to precisely calculate each trip. Without
one, the slightest miscalculation might destroy the
entire ship. Rather than attempt to duplicate the
skills of a computer, as the Mentats do, the school of
Navigators turned to spice instead. They discovered
that consuming massive amounts of spice granted
limited prescient visions of incredible accuracy. The
Navigators learned to send their minds out across the
universe and see the safe path to pilot a vessel across
a myriad of futures. Having unlocked the secrets of
foldspace travel, they decided to keep the mysteries to
themselves. They became the Spacing Guild and now
have a monopoly on interstellar travel. As the Guild
claims to remain neutral in matters of politics, they
have also built a powerful banking institution, the Guild
Bank. But should they renounce their neutrality by
refusing to transport weapons and soldiers, they have
the power to isolate any noble House, and even stop
wars before they happen.

The powerful influence of the various schools and the
competition between the planetary ruling Houses
has made politics in the Imperium a very subtle
balancing act. No one has complete power, not even
the Emperor. Each faction must leverage what it can
offer to get what it wants but must also be careful not
to overplay its hand. The needs and desires of each
faction provide a clue to their weakness. This leads
to a political landscape of plans within plans and
layers of deceit covered in secrets and lies to protect
dangerous truths.
Your player characters are about to enter this world as
the primary agents of one of the Houses of the Imperium. How powerful that House is depends on the
choices of the group, and the more power it has, the
more enemies it accrues. The more resources it has,
the more the others will try to take from it. The player
characters might serve their House in different ways.
They might be part of the noble family, a Bene Gesserit advisor, lethal duelist, cunning spymaster, or even
one of the elusive desert-dwelling Fremen. The characters have been sent by their House to the desert
planet Arrakis, more commonly called ‘Dune’ by its
natives. There they can advance both their House and
their own prestige, if they can survive.

E r a s o f P l ay
The setting of Dune covers a period of tens of thousands of years, which is a lot to take on if you are
unfamiliar with it. In this book we focus on the time just before Frank Herbert’s first novel Dune. The
era of the Imperium sets the stage for the incredible events that are about to unfold. This gives your
player characters a chance to understand the complexities of the setting, and perhaps even lead their
House during the storm of Paul Atreides’ great Jihad.
However, there is far more to the universe of Dune than the story of Paul Atreides. So we have
divided the major eras of the setting into seven distinct ages. Each offers different opportunities for
your player characters and your campaign, and as the line progresses, we hope to look at each one
in more detail. But in the meantime, we offer this rather broad description of over 20,000 years of history. Obviously, the best source on any particular era are the novels associated with it, which we have
noted for each era.

B u tleri a n J i h a d
This is a time of revolution, change, and war. The
Butlerian Jihad rages across space, in a war against the
‘thinking machines’. This is a time before the Houses of
the Landsraad and the Great Schools. The old ways and
many advanced technologies are being thrown away
out of necessity, lest the machine minds take control of
them. Humanity is being forced to do its own thinking as
it does battle with its most terrifying adversary.

Post-Jihad, humanity is victorious, and vows never again
to create a machine in the likeness of the human mind.
The Great Houses and Imperial government are properly
established to unify the new Imperium and to rebuild
what was destroyed. But this new system of government
is not popular with everyone and internecine squabbles
threaten the nascent empire. Humanity is also trying to
find ways to do without the thinking machines they were
so used to, leading to the formation of the Great Schools
of the Mentats, Bene Gesserit, and Spacing Guild.

NOVELS OF THE BULTERIAN JIHAD ERA
@ Dune: The Butlerian Jihad
(Brian Herbert & Kevin J. Anderson)
@ Dune: The Machine Crusade
(Brian Herbert & Kevin J. Anderson)
@ Dune: The Battle of Corrin
(Brian Herbert & Kevin J. Anderson)

After an attack by House Harkonnen destroys House
Atreides, the surviving heir, Paul ‘Muad’Dib’ Atreides,
leads a coup to take control of the Imperium. He comes
to understand that whoever controls Arrakis controls
the spice, and whoever controls the spice controls the
universe. While House Corrino loses its control of the
throne, the Great Houses of the Landsraad remain.
With the Guild and Bene Gesserit reliant on spice for
many of their abilities, and most nobles desperate for
its life-extending properties, the Imperium is forced to
accept Paul as the new Emperor. Arrakis becomes the
center of not only a new Imperium but a new religion.
The Fremen of Dune lead a brutal jihad across the
universe to bring any malcontents to heel and spread
the worship of the Atreides noble family with Paul as
the universe’s Messiah. But counter-revolutionaries plot
against Muad’Dib and many secretly work to restore the
old order.

Paul’s son Leto II becomes God Emperor but undergoes
a strange metamorphosis, encased in living armor made
up of the larval form of sandworms. As such, he becomes
a part of Arrakis, transforming into a sandworm over
thousands of years. The Imperium knows peace during
this time, mostly due to the fear the new God Emperor
inspires in all who consider crossing him. The Great
Houses remain intact but serve at the God Emperor’s will.
The all-female order of the Fish Speakers is created as
Leto’s personal elite guard. Many consider his rule to be
a brutal one, making this a time of many conspiracies and
assassination attempts to destroy the regime.

With Nasir stable, Helen returns to Kara chasing the
assassin. They need to make opposed tests to see if
Kara can catch up with the assassin. Luckily, he doesn’t
have much of a head-start, and Kara can utilize a talent
she learned from her Bene Gesserit training to push her
muscles to run faster. She catches up with the assassin
as he ducks into a small alleyway.
“I’m drawing my knife,” announces Claire as Kara closes
in on her prey.
“Realizing he’s not going to escape, he turns to face
you, drawing a nasty looking blade himself.”
“OK, he wants to play. Let’s do this.”
Kara and the assassin engage in a conflict action. While
Kara is faster, they are evenly matched for skill. As the
assassin knows the area, the street itself becomes a trait
he can use for a bonus. When they engage, neither
manages a clear victory, but Kara rolls a complication
and becomes wounded.
“So, the wound in your leg is going to be a penalty, and
you’ve got no Momentum left.”

“Okay, okay. You can have some Threat: I need some
more dice.”

“Good! I’m after him.”
“Damnit. We can’t leave Nasir lying here. I knew we
should have taken more guards. This is the last time we
ignore security because ‘it’s just a shopping trip in the
bazaar’!” says Sam.
“So, you’re splitting the party?” grins Helen. “Let’s deal
with Taren looking over Nasir first. Then we’ll come back
to Kara and the assassin.”
Helen knows that there was a deadly poison on the dart
that hit Nasir. She decides that for Taran to neutralize
it he needs to beat a Difficulty of 4 on an Understand
skill test. Taren decides his Faith belief applies, and he
luckily brought some of his medical equipment, a useful
asset. His ‘Suk Doctor’ trait also gives him a bonus. It’s
still going to be a tough test to succeed at, though.
“I think I should use some of our Momentum on this
one,” says Sam.
“Not so fast,” replies Claire. “Kara needs to chase down
the assassin and take him down. Don’t spend it all.”
“Ok, I’m spending 1 point, but I could do with more.”
“You can always give me some Threat points,” Helen
quietly suggests.
“I don’t like the way she’s smiling. Spend a couple more
Momentum if you need to, but leave me something,”
says Claire.
Sam spends the points from their Momentum pool and
gathers his dice. Thankfully, the roll is a success and he
administers an antidote in time. Nasir will still be unconscious for a while, but he won’t die.

“Excellent, that’ll come in handy on the assassin’s attack roll.”
Helen and Claire roll the opposed contest between Kara
and the assassin. This time the assassin wins. It is then
up to Helen to describe the action.
“The assassin has Kara backed up against a nearby wall,
so he shoulder-barges her against it, knocking the wind
out of her. Kara’s knife arm is pinned and she struggles
to break free before he can drive his knife into her. But
before he can deliver a killing blow, Kara sees the flash
of a white-bladed knife held high before it is driven into
his back. He falls to the ground, dead.”
“What? Who? Damnit, we wanted to capture the assassin, not kill him.”
“You realize Kara is alive right? Standing over the assassin’s body is a Fremen woman dressed in a standard aba
robe like everyone else. You think she might be the same
one you noticed was watching you before you set off for
the Bazaar this morning. She looks at you intensely and
says ‘Someone does not want your wedding to happen.
We Fremen need to see it succeed.’ Then she vanishes
back into the crowd on the main street.”
“Kara will chase after her!”
“Not with that leg wound she won’t. You might want to
return to where you left Taran and Nasir again, as Kara
doesn’t know if Taran managed to help him.”
“Fair point. Looks like this wedding is going to be a lot
more complicated than we expected. I’d better go and
see is my fiancé is still alive!”

The history of humankind is sprawling with the slightest
of instances altering the course of destiny. That alteration
could be the birth of a leader, a malfunctioning device that
saved or killed countless billions, the evolution of humans
through technology, or the ecology of new planets.

Humanity’s birthplace of Earth, Old Terra, was the third
planet in the Sol system. Much of that history has been
lost and does not figure into the timeline of the Imperium. What little records remain of the ancient ancestral
birthplace of humanity are over 11,000 years old and tell
of humanity reaching the stars. That journey began with
the barest movement into the universe, first to a nearby
satellite that orbited the Earth, and then to a red sister
planet. Humans crawled further and further into space.
Then, when equipped with spacecraft capable of exploring the entire Sol system, they started to walk.
These archaic Earth ships lacked faster than light (FTL)
drives. This hindrance trapped these early space explorers primarily within their home star system. A benefit of
this slow expansion allowed early humans to retain the
government structure of Old Terra with minimal impact.
The push to discover faster space travel influenced not
only humanity’s ability to explore the galaxy but the very
nature of what it meant to be human.
Humanity explored space and furthered its technology,
forming the Old Empire that grew with each passing century, gradually expanding to reach thousands

The Faufreluches caste system arose during the
Old Empire, as humanity needed something or
someone to focus on as a leader to maintain order.
The system explained everyone’s role and provided
a structure for the populace to adhere to. The
Houses (Major and Minor), the Imperium, and siridar
fiefs (emperor-granted planetary fiefdoms) were
critical for success. All the factors worked to support
the others to maintain their place in the system, so
removal of any one group would cause the entire
structure to collapse.
The Faufreluches caste system is described in
greater detail on p.37.

T h e O ld
E mpire E x p a n ds
The Old Empire emerged after the invention of FTL
drives, as humanity launched itself deeper into space
much faster than before, but still at a crawl compared
to the efficiency of folding space. This was a time of
massive expansion, a new manifest destiny as an exodus
from Earth out into the universe with hope for a brighter
tomorrow on everyone’s minds. As humanity spread further into space, they discovered the first cluster of other
habitable planets: worlds such as Caladan, Richese,
Ix, and Ecaz. Then they expanded out to explore even
more worlds.
The expansion lasted for over a millennium under the
rule of an Imperial government. However, the vast distances between the thousand worlds under the Empire
was the illusion of an empire. The Imperial government
could not provide rapid support or protection for their
vessels or their far-flung worlds. As time ebbed on, the
Imperium became stagnant and reliant upon technology
to perform even the most mundane tasks, abandoning its religious beliefs and replacing them with apathy.
Towards the end of the Empire’s days came the discovery of the planet Arrakis. As had been done so many
times before, scientists went to the planet to determine
its value to the Imperium, to assess the suitability of the
planet as a home for humanity.
In its apathy, humanity had become reliant on machines
and artificial intelligence (AI) in every aspect of their
lives. AI had long been a goal of humans since the time
of Old Terra. This simplistic vision would lead to their
eventual downfall. That began with Tlaloc, the revolutionary who, in a failed attempt to awaken humanity
from its stupor, turned to more radical means to overthrow the Old Empire. A small but brilliant and influential group of twenty followers formed around Tlaloc.
They took on the names of legendary individuals from
human history and called themselves the Titans.

T h e T ime o f T it a n s
The Titans were composed of scientists, geniuses, and
fallen nobility, and they possessed the tools needed
to topple the Imperium. Xerxes, an exiled prince, gave
financial backing to the plan of General Agamemnon, who outmaneuvered the Old Empire to allow the
technical genius Barbarossa unfettered access to the
Imperial network. Agamemnon deduced that turning
thinking machines into an army would let them topple
the Imperium with minimal violence. While the military
was skilled and well-trained, they were no match for
the near-endless ranks of thinking machines scattered
throughout human space. The defeated human army
saved the dethroned Emperor in 1287 B.G., and the
Titans assumed control of the Known Universe.

In response and out of necessity, 10,000 free human
systems united, forming the League of Nobles to oppose
the Titans. As the union solidified, Bovko Manresa became
their first viceroy. Manresa had established a refuge for
those fleeing the thinking machines and offered the world
of Salusa Secundus as a forward operation base.
Once in control, the Titans divided the universe into
small fiefdoms and installed themselves as dictators,
ruling with brutal and cruel efficiency. Much like the
now-subjected humans under their control, the Titans
relied heavily on thinking machines and AIs to rule the
planets they held. The Titans themselves focused on
more pleasurable pursuits of sex, combat, and other
diversions.

When an accident took Tlaloc’s life, the Titans were
reminded of their mortality. Though long-lived due to
life-extending procedures, the specter of death hung
close to them. Following in the footsteps of Cogitor Arn
Eklo, their advisor, they would place their brains into
preservation tanks. Unlike cogitors, whose brains were
in sensory deprivation, preservation tanks allowed the
Titans to live for thousands of years, complementing
humanity’s destiny.
The Titans became cymeks, nearly unstoppable weaponized mechanical bodies capable of surviving for thousands of years but remaining vulnerable to hostile conditions. Their sensors acted as replacement for all sensory
stimulus, and thus, they waited, seemingly immortal.

The League’s forces continued to battle the thinking
machines, as the Sorceresses of Rossak began their
breeding program to create the ultimate psychic to
combat Omnius. The nascent program would become
the foundation of the Kwisatz Haderach and the Bene
Gesserit Sisterhood. In the shadow of the war, scientist
Tio Holtzman, who derived the theory called the Holtzman Effect, began working with young Norma Cenva,
who developed space ‘folding’. Lastly, Aurelius Venport,
while far away from the front lines, discovered the key to
the universe and humanity’s destiny, the true properties
of the spice melange (or more simply, “spice”).

Erasmus had a fascination with humanity and expressed
it through dissection of them. Serena was pregnant with
Xavier’s child while Erasmus’ prisoner. She befriended
Vorian. Erasmus became obsessed with Butler. To have
more time with her, it killed her child Manion, who
became the first martyr of the oncoming war. Enraged,
Butler attacked Erasmus, causing a human uprising
against their machine masters. The revolt was quelled
and, in the chaos, Butler and Iblis Ginjo escaped along
with Vorian aboard his ship and fled to the League of
Nobles’ home base.

THE THREE FACTIONS

The universe essentially broke into three distinct
factions, each with their own motivations.

about how the machines operated. There were many
inconclusive battles in the first years of the war, with
neither side able to claim victory. These pointless skirmishes included the assault on Bela Tegeuse and the
many times the League repelled Omnius’ forces attacking their homeworld of Salusa Secundus. Many of the
worlds freed by the League’s attacks were considered
partial victories. While they had liberated the planets,
Omnius exterminated all humanity on them before it
sent its consciousness to the next world.
Nearly twenty years into the Butlerian Jihad, humanity
had suffered large losses from suicidal robotic forces.
A critical turning point occurred when Omnius Prime
began attacking and conquering the Unallied Planets,
starting with Tyndall and Bellos. These newfound locations became forward operating posts for the thinking
machines.
The League of Nobles debated internally what the
best course of action would be as the Unallied Worlds
refused them the resources required to defend themselves. Out of necessity, they chose to protect all human
worlds to deny the enemy any support. The League
rescued many, such as the peaceful Zensunni, and the
mercenaries of Ginaz joined the cause, providing valuable tactical skills.

T h e D aw n o f T h e
B u tleri a n J i h a d
After centuries under constant threat, coupled with
Serena’s urging over the loss of her child, 201 B.G.
witnessed the beginning of the Butlerian Jihad. The
League of Nobles on Salusa Secundus led the assault
on Omnius’ Synchronized Worlds. They began with
Earth. The forces followed the two religious leaders—its
High Priestess Serena and the Grand Patriarch Iblis—
along with the Generals Vorian and Xavier. In response,
Omnius worked with Erasmus to eradicate all human life
on Earth. The League captured the Earth-based Omnius
for experimentation, and the League of Nobles used
atomics on the barren world to win the battle. Such was
humanity’s first recorded victory against the machines in
the war of humankind versus thinking machines.
Omnius Prime relocated itself to Corrin as it prepared
for what was to come while Erasmus escaped the human
Jihad by fleeing to Corrin. Erasmus’ fascination with
humanity never ceased, and the conscious machine
struck a bet with Omnius that a human could be as logical as a machine. This bet would eventually lead to the
creation of the first human Mentats.
The sentient AI continually pressed a logical and
ordered attack. Vorian, who knew the ways of machines,
provided tactical guidance to the League of Nobles

VenKee Enterprises formed under Aurelius Venport and
Tuk Keedair, to distribute spice throughout the universe
and trade with the League of Nobles. The company’s
profits skyrocketed from sales of spice and glowglobes
created by Norma Cenva. Sometime later, Norma Cenva
provided them the secret that would revolutionize the
Known Universe. She had discovered how to reliably ‘fold
space’. At that time, this form of long-range space travel
was unpredictable, with one in ten ships simply vanishing.
A devious plan to corrupt the Omnius mind was
executed, destroying eight instances of it before it was
stopped by Omnius Prime and Erasmus. During this
chaos, the Titans temporarily escaped, then took control
of the planet Bela Tegeuse and converted willing volunteers into a deadly army of Neo-cymeks. While this new
threat emerged, the Cogitors proposed a possible truce
between humanity and the machines, which resulted in
the death of Serena and provided a new martyr to reinvigorate humanity to fight on, pressing VenKee Enterprises to provide their fledging space folding technology in service to the League.
The war raged for years. Then, Yorek Thurr, a League
traitor, provided the inspiration for the Omnius Scourge.
The machine-made virus engineered by Erasmus decimated the human population. A cure was found in the
form of the spice melange, which transformed human
society fundamentally, affecting almost every aspect of
life. Finally, Vorian led an attack on the Titans, destroying them and killing his father, hastening the final stage
of the conflict.

T h e F a ll o f t h e
T h i n k i n g M a c h i n es
The end of the Butlerian Jihad occurred over the planet
Corrin, where Omnius gathered all its forces for one
last fatal assault against Salusa Secundus. The League
discovered the plot and prepared its retaliation, assaulting the unprotected Synchronized Worlds, blasting them
with atomics and destroying everything. The opposing
forces met at Corrin. The League trapped Omnius Prime
with a scrambler network: a device created by Norma
Cenva that used the Holtzman effect to destroy the gel
in thinking machines. Before its destruction, Omnius
sent a radio signal into an unknown region of space,
laced with a copy of itself. Erasmus’ human test subject
Gilbertus Albans escaped with Eramus’ brain before the
scrambler network went online.

T he B irth of an E mpire
The destruction of the thinking machines on Corrin
ended the Jihad, and the leader, Faykan Butler, changed
his last name to Corrino to honor what had happened.
He then created House Corrino and crowned himself
Emperor. The Orange Catholic Bible issued the commandment, “Thou shalt not make a machine in the
likeness of a human mind.” That decree was enforced
and lived on.
Faykan Corrino became the first Padishah Emperor through
a series of political moves and manipulation of humanity’s fear of thinking machines. The new empire became
a hereditary rule taken up by House Corrino after the
Battle of Corrin. The title was used by the leader of
House Corrino for more than 10,000 years.
The Houses, both Major and Minor, were an ancient
part of the Old Empire and what would become the
Imperium. They had evolved along with humanity, with
different lineages that rose and fell as the engine of time
turned. In the modern empire, a Major House controlled at least one world as the primary base of operations, and possibly many more. The Minor Houses had
a single moon, territory, or some other strategic or valuable asset under their control, owing fidelity to a Major
House that they were bound to. These Houses acquired
their rank through ancient blood lineage, wealth, or by
grant of the Imperial throne. The empire operated as an
interstellar fiefdom.
The Houses banded together to form the Landsraad,
composed of the noble Houses who were overseen
by the Padishah Emperor and run by its High Council.
Both Major and Minor Houses were welcomed, with the
Major Houses being the only members elected to the
High Council. The Landsraad met frequently, allowing
nobles a place to air grievances, discuss matters impacting the universe, and formalize deals, whether contracts,
feuds, or other business and territorial matters.

The Landsraad made decisions by vote, with the Major
Houses having considerable power, seconded by the
Imperial throne, and lastly, the Minor Houses. Even the
Emperor had to adhere to decrees made by the High
Council, as the combined might of the Major Houses
nearly matched that of the Imperium. The High Council
ruled the Landsraad and was selected from the members of the Major Houses by vote. These representatives were second only to the Emperor in influence. The
Houses were expected to act as the Landsraad decreed.
The Major Houses were originally granted worlds at
the behest of the Emperor, later becoming hereditary
akin to the throne. Fiefdoms frequently took the form
of a main homeworld that paid a tithe to the throne
through their exports and were responsible for the
enforcement of the laws and services to the Empire.
Each Major House was allowed a small army, a coatof-arms, and authority to rule the world in adherence
to their beliefs. The latter led to some worlds being
paradises welcome to all, while others operated on the
backs of enslaved people.
The nobles of Minor Houses held wealth, privilege, and
political power, but only a fraction of that held by the
Major Houses. The nobles of this class found themselves
like guests, capable of moving through the universe
with greater ease than Major House members. They
overlooked the internecine battle between Houses—
the formalized and limited War of Assassins—unless it
affected them directly. These elite were frequently found
in locations with stronger trade or business, as their
status required more upkeep.

In the wake of Butlerian Jihad the remaining members
of the Sorceresses of Rossak moved toward their next
evolutionary step, forming the Bene Gesserit under
Raquella Berto-Anirul. Their order assumed roles once
held by the thinking machines, taking on positions of
leadership and influence working with and within the
League of Nobles. The Sorceresses were the originators of the breeding program for the Kwizatz Haderach,
responsible for creating the perfect human being and
creating a record of the bloodlines of the noble families.
The Rossak Sorceresses aided in the Butlerian Jihad
and acquired much political power in its aftermath,
due to their influence and the reservoir of knowledge
possessed by the Mother Superior, reaching back to
the early days of humankind. The organization used the
trappings of religion to move its grand plans forward to
acquire more power and chart the course of humankind
through their prescience. They operated in the background, pushing political players as needed through
marriage, terror, and other, more subtle means.
The Butlerian Jihad battlefields were brutal nightmares
that broke the minds of doctors dealing with the massive numbers of casualties. Dr. Rajid Suk, one of the

most exceptional battlefield surgeons that ever lived,
was one of the few who did not break. He made significant contributions to the League of Nobles and laid the
foundation for his grandnephew Mohandas. Possessing
even greater skill, Mohandas opened the Suk Medical School, which surpassed all others, and the doctors
there were known for never betraying a patient. Graduates of the Suk School were considered the best doctors
in the Imperium.
Gilbertus Albans joined the League of Nobles while
hiding the Erasmus pod and founded the order of Mentats. While the order slowly flourished, the Butlerian
Jihad cults were ever-present, and many Mentats joined
their cause to cement the end of all thinking machines.
The Mentats took the places of the thinking machines,
but unlike either the Bene Gesserit or Spacing Guild,
they did not acquire political power as an order. Instead,
their unique skills helped them become tools of those
in power, serving as advisors rather than as leaders or
shapers of history. Though essential for the economic
growth of the Imperium, they are more servants waiting
to be assigned than leaders in their own rights.

Norma Cenva’s discovery of the prescient powers of
spice enabled safe space folding and solidified the
future of the company that became the Foldspace
Shipping Company, later the Spacing Guild, or
more commonly ‘the Guild’. The Guild established a
monopoly on all space travel and banking, as all who
wanted to travel quickly through space were required
to go through them. Thus, the Guild enforces peace
through financial stability: adhere to their dictates and
ensure Guild Peace or lose access to faster-than-light
interstellar travel, and thus face economic suicide and
financial ruin, losing access to many of the funds and
the ability to make transactions through the Guild Bank.
Simply put, a House that defies the Guild is denied their
range of essential services and is at a fatal disadvantage
transporting their goods and participating in the great
market of the Landsraad.
The Shipping Company birthed the Combine Honnete
Ober Advancer Mercantiles (CHOAM) that controls
nearly every economic contract or deal throughout
the Known Universe. No legal arrangement occurred
without paying a percentage to CHOAM. The company
was composed of the Emperor and the Landsraad with
the Bene Gesserit and Spacing Guild as silent partners
in profits paid to shareholders. The quickest route to
wealth in the Imperium was through CHOAM, and it
resulted in numerous assassinations and initial conflicts
while on the path towards acceptance and acknowledgment of its primacy in the empire’s financial power.
CHOAM was run like a corporation with a board of
directors and profit shares, and was open to the public
to purchase shares for those that could afford them.

Members of the Landsraad from the Great Houses held
more power on the board of directors than the Minor
Houses. Still, all were subjected to the Emperor, who
gave and assigned shares. The balance built into the
Imperium stayed the worst of the Emperor’s demands
with a focus on backstabbing rather than outright
confronting the other members. The political power of
CHOAM is without question as the wealth it provides
is key to each House, government, and organization.
Much as the Spacing Guild is dependent on spice, while
CHOAM is dependent upon the Guild as its lifeline.

Ultimately, all the Major and Minor Houses had essentially the same shared needs: commerce and the ability
to travel across the vastness of space. Now lacking a
machine enemy, each House shared the same threat to
their existence: the very arsenals that they had amassed
to fight in the Jihad could now be turned against one
another. To ensure that their needs were continued to be
met and that the threat of attack within the Landsraad
was mitigated, the Great Houses signed a treaty establishing an alliance to stop anyone from ever again using
atomic weapons on one another and on their holdings,
particularly upon their subjects. This Great Convention saw the Imperial throne, Houses, and Spacing Guild
reach an accord. It marked a historic moment in humanity’s evolution, paralleling ancient meetings of Old Terra
by banning weapons of mass destruction. After the horrific Omnius plagues unleashed during the years of the
Jihad, the strictures of the Great Convention also firmly
prohibited all use of biological plagues and weaponry.
The agreement stated that no House could use atomics
against humans again, as human life was deemed too precious after having lost so many in the Butlerian Jihad. Such
an action would cause all the remaining parties to exterminate the offender. This had the side effect of a resultant
move towards use of medieval weapons for combat. Further
refinements included limitations on the usage of lasguns
and shield technology, so intertwined as they were with
weapons of mass destruction due to the Holtzman Effect.
Penalties for breaking the Great Convention were
severe, even catastrophic, for any House found guilty.
Even the most minor of transgressions meant temporary
censure and denial of services from CHOAM and the
Spacing Guild, while severe violations led to forfeitures of shares in CHOAM, seizure of property by the
Emperor, and license for destruction by any enemies—
or former allies—within the Landsraad. Any territory or
industries seized as a result were to be divided by the
Emperor among other Houses, making defiance of the
Great Convention a risk few would dare to take. Placing
the mechanism for enforcement into the hands of ‘external’ agencies like CHOAM—ostensibly owned by all the
Landsraad—and the Spacing Guild meant that justice
had a semblance of impartiality and fairness.

Lasguns,
S h ields , &
t h e G re at C o n v e n ti o n
When a lasgun beam hits a shield, the effect is
instant, devastating, and pseudo-atomic. A pseudoatomic explosion occurs that lays waste to the
area and anything within it, possibly even for miles
around. For this reason, the Great Convention has
outlawed the use of this effect in any way, in the
same way it outlaws the use of atomic weapons.
For most player characters, that will be enough of a
warning. Unfortunately, some players may still think
that a few suicide troops with lasguns might end a
rival quickly and efficiently. They would be wrong,
and the fact that even the Harkonnens will not stoop
to his method should be a clue as to the terrible
consequences that will occur. Most Houses will not
take lasguns into a battle where they even suspect a
shield may be present.
Whether it is accidental or intended, any lasgun/
shield interaction breaks the Great Convention,

the importance of which cannot be overstated. It is
an agreement around which peace in the universe
remains possible. Nobles want to know that when
they are shielded, they are safe, and that there are
limits to the myriad ways their enemies will attempt
to destroy them. Anyone who breaks this status quo
for any reason threatens to shake the very foundations of civilization in the Imperium.
This means that any House that knowingly or
unknowing breaks any of the rules of the Great
Convention will be crushed. The Landsraad cannot
afford to allow any other option. The errant House
will be destroyed, its holdings divided among its
peers (making them less inclined towards mercy
anyway). For the players, their characters, their
characters’ families, and their House, this means the
game is over.
No warnings, no excuses, no apologies, no quarter.

The accord also regulated that the Imperial government could not take sides in House vs. House conflicts
and should either act as or appoint a neutral arbiter.
Lastly, the Emperor was given full authority in matters
related to the Butlerian Jihad.

A N ew O rder
E merg es
The end of Butlerian Jihad and the defeat of the
millennium-long enemy saw humanity on the cusp of
a new destiny. The old order was gone, the threat that
held humanity together was gone, and an unknown
future awaited. Anyone could declare themselves
emperor, but without a rigid structure, the Imperium
would all fall apart and into chaos. While different
factions worked to hold the universe together, none
could do it alone.
The League of Nobles survived the Butlerian Jihad, with
new people claiming nobility and positions of power.
The Spacing Guild came into existence out of a
monopoly on the ability to safely fold space and
acquired the interstellar banks’ trade less than a century after the Butlerian Jihad. This monumental step in
human evolution created the need for a new Imperial
Calendar, After Guild (A.G.), because of the importance of this event and the extent that the new technology would change the future. Much of the Spacing
Guild’s initial political power emerged from the Great
Convention that established the new Imperium for the
universe, ensuring that the benefits for cooperation far
outweighed any gains for non-compliance and violating the peace.
In near-perfect synchrony with the Spacing Guild, the
Padishah Empire, the Great Houses, and CHOAM
also formed and established the basis of the new
Imperium in 1 A.G. upon the shattered remains of the
Old Empire. New universal governance was needed
to lead humanity. A bargain was arranged during the
Great Convention with the Imperium (House Corrino)
as the ruler of the Known Universe in a shared feudal
agreement with the Landsraad, Bene Gesserit, and the
Spacing Guild. The Empire grew over the millennia
to encompass more than a million planets across the
galaxy.

Order of the Mentats to assign members who were in
great demand from each universal power player.
There were exceptions to this peace, such as when
one aggressive House desired removal of the thencurrent Emperor and blasted Salusa Secundus with
atomics, turning it into a devastated wasteland. That
emperor survived the assault, and later turned the
remains of the planet into a prison and training ground
of the Sardaukar. These soldiers were the Padishah
Emperor’s elite military force, in service to House
Corrino, feared throughout the Known Universe for
their capability and loyalty to the throne. It was widely
believed that no army could match the Sardaukar of
House Corrino.

Two other important schools worthy of consideration also arose in this time, and though neither was as
influential as the Bene Gesserit, the Mentats, or the
Spacing Guild, they were nonetheless hugely useful to
all Houses—Major and Minor. The first was the Swordmasters of Ginaz, battle-trained warriors of superlative
skill, capable of defending House-members within
their estates and training their soldiers to incredible
discipline. The other was the doctors of the Suk School
of Medicine, described prior. Though each had many
rivals, none could attain and maintain the standard
of excellence that made the Ginaz and Suk schools
synonymous with the services they provided. When one
spoke of a ‘swordmaster’ or a ‘doctor’, it was assumed
that these were products of the Ginaz or the Suk
schools, as no others would be worthy of mention.

T h e I mperi u m
T o d ay
The Known Universe in the year of 10,081 is ruled
by Padishah Emperor Shaddam Corrino IV. After
the discovery of space folding and the explosive
growth of the Known Universe, recent expansion has slowed. Now, the borders of the Known
Universe are only slightly larger than the Imperium
itself, having increased ever so slowly over the
centuries as space outside it was explored and
charted.
Millennia upon millennia have passed as the Padishah Empire remains in control, though by the time
of Emperor Shaddam IV, the Imperium is stressed,
inefficient, and bloated. For several generations a
quiet revolutionary movement has been building
among certain noble Houses, the Noble Commonwealth, with the aim of breaking apart the vast,
monolithic Imperium into smaller, independent,
and competitive holdings. The Noble Commonwealth has been known to foster some terrorist
activities to make their point known.
The importance of spice is widespread, making it
the single most valuable and sought-after substance in the galaxy. The desire for commerce and
evolution continues undaunted.
Humanity continues to evolve, learn, and to succumb to its need for power and self-destruction.
Charismatic leaders have risen to change the
course of humankind, only to fall and be replaced
by others, in an endless cycle of change. The one
thing that unites the entirety of the universe is the
spice melange.

T imeli n e o f
H u m a n H ist o ry
Eras are Before Guild (B.G.) and After Guild (A.G.). Dates identified only by era are
unknown and are placed approximately. Many dates are approximate or contested.
11,000 B.G.
The Space Age begins and
there is a revelation about
how religion operates.

B.G.
The Old Empire begins with B.G.
humankind governed by an Arrakis is abandoned.
expanding Imperial body of
1,280 B.G.
planets.
The Titans' leader dies.
2,200 B.G.
Using advanced technology,
Several scientists and
the other Titans transform
philosophers transplant their
themselves into cymeks.
brains into preservation
canisters, becoming Cogitors. 1,192–1,183 B.G.
The Walgis Rebellion.
B.G.
Over ideological differences, 1,182 B.G.
The aggressive AI Omnius
Buddislam splits into two
takes control of all Titan
different factions:
planets, creating the
Zensunnis and Zenshiites.
Synchronized Worlds and
1,381 B.G.
making all the Titans its
The Zensunni split from
servants.
the Maometh, the third
1,182 B.G.
Muhammed religion.
In response to Omnius’
B.G.
actions, the League of
Yanshup Ashkoko, a scholar Nobles limits all A.I. usage.
in service to Shakkad the
1,182 B.G.
Wise, discovers the spice
Omnius attacks the League
melange on Arrakis.
of Nobles and is rebuffed.
B.G.
Arrakis is evaluated for future 1,182 B.G.
Believing the rise and attack
colonization and planetary
of the machines adhered to
value for the Empire.
the Kralizec Prophecy, the
1,287 B.G.
Buddislamics flee to wander
The Old Empire’s last
the universe.
emperor is dethroned and
400 B.G.
lost to history.
The Sorceresses of Rossak
1,287 B.G.
start their initial breeding
The time of the Titans begins.
record program. This will
become the heart of the
B.G.
Kwisatz Haderach program.
The Titans reprogram
computers and AI, giving them
250 B.G.
aggression. They use them to
Manion Butler is born.
conquer the Old Empire.
236 B.G.
B.G.
Piers Harkonnen is born.
The Titans divide up the
empire into fiefdoms under 223 B.G.
their control.
Vorian Atreides is born.

201 B.G.
The League of Nobles
attacks Earth with atomics,
destroying all the thinking
machines on the planet.
Earth is left a shattered,
uninhabitable wasteland.
198 B.G.
The Jihad’s crusaders
execute their first joint
attack on Bela Tegeuse.
Neither side can declare
victory in the battle.

197 B.G.
The Corrin Omnius launches
an unsuccessful attack on
the League of Nobles world
Salusa Secundus.

108 B.G.
The League of Nobles
destroys most of the
Omnius Al throughout
the universe and declares
the Butlerian Jihad to be
officially over.
107 B.G.
The Humanities Medical
Commission is founded
by Mohandes Suk and
Raquella Berto-Anirul. After
the Jihad, it travels the
universe aiding those in
need.
88 B.G.
The Arrakis Zensunni are
assaulted by raiders and
some are enslaved.
88 B.G.
Cenva discovers that
prescience through spice
allows flawless space
folding.
88 B.G.
The Humanities Medical
Commission travels to
Rossak to battle the Rossak
Epidemic, a mutated strain
of the Omnius virus.
88 B.G.
Faykan Butler uses the Cult
of Serena to ascend to
Viceroy and institutes the
law that no machine can be
created in the likeness of a
human mind.
88 B.G.
The Corrin Omnius
broadcasts a copy of itself
into deep space and uses
the enslaved humans as a
shield to slow the League of
Nobles' assault. The League
attacks anyway; destroying
the last instance of Omnius
and all remaining thinking
machines.

88 B.G.
Faykan Butler takes on
the last name Corrino and
declares himself Emperor of
Humanity.
88 B.G.
Fleeing the slavers on
Arrakis, the Zensunni
move into the deep desert
and adapt to the harsh
environment.
88 B.G.
Ix and Richese survive the
Cult of Serena’s fanatical
assault on machines,
unscathed.

1 A.G.
The Imperial throne, the
Spacing Guild, CHOAM,
and the Landsraad all
work together, forming the
Imperium as it will be for
generations.
A.G.
The Great Houses
convene to sign the Great
Convention, outlawing
the use of atomics against
humans. Anyone breaking
the convention is open to
attack without warning.
A.G.
Salusa Secundus is
destroyed by atomic
weapons and the Imperial
capital is moved to Kaitain.
A.G.
The Bene Gesserit creates
the art of thought-merging
and memory transfer that
becomes the backbone of
the Sisterhood’s strength.
6,600 A.G.
First Wild Reverend Mother
appears.

B.G.
Mohannas Suk establishes
the Suk Medical School.
B.G.
Under the leadership of
Raquella Berto-Anirul, the
Rossak Sorceresses become
the Bene Gesserit, founding
their Mother School on
Wallach IX.
B.G.
Albans establishes the
Order of Mentats.
86 B.G.
House Atreides is founded
as reward for actions during
the Butlerian Jihad.
5 B.G.
CHOAM is founded.
1 B.G.
The Spacing Guild is
birthed from the Foldspace
Shipping Company and
establishes itself as a key
force in the universe. This
marks the pivotal event
that changes the course of
humanity’s destiny.

8,677 A.G.
House Atreides moves to
Caladan.
10,108 A.G.
House Richese loses its
economic war against Ix.
10,110 A.G.
Vladimir Harkonnen is born.
10,114 A.G.
House Richese loses control
of Arrakis and House
Harkonnen is granted it as
a fief.

with different Houses jockeying for capital and influence, striving against one another, using espionage and
other tactics to spy upon one another, to war discretely,
and to thwart the ambitions of their rivals. Meanwhile,
the Emperor sits above it all, picking favorites and allying discretely with one House against another, giving
advantage to one while weakening another, changing
his favorites as they become relevant.

Power in the Imperium is held between three great
factions: the Landsraad alliance of Houses Major and

seemingly barren save for its gigantic sandworms and
fierce nomadic native inhabitants called the Fremen, is
the most important place in the universe.
Wars have been fought over possession of the spice, for
the one who controls the spice holds the wheel about
which the universe turns. Stewardship of Arrakis is one of
the most valuable holdings any House may possess, as the
spice is as essential as it is expensive. The House with the
right to mine spice on Dune becomes a target for every
other House, so lucrative is the spice trade, which is in
itself another balancing force. For this reason, it is explicitly
prohibited for the Emperor himself to possess Arrakis, as
this would tip the balance of power irrevocably.
With the Butlerian Edicts, humankind is forbidden
to make machines that can think, and thus it once
more falls to humankind to fill this void. Spice grants
enhanced mental acuity and awareness, and as a result,
many specialized fields of training take advantage of
this. In addition to the Bene Gesserit (described on
p.55) and the Spacing Guild (following), some other
organizations known as Great Schools use spice or training aided by spice to reach pinnacles of human development and discipline. They are described in The Great
Schools, on p.34.

The greatest challenge to the cohesion of the Imperium
and the rule of the Emperor is the vastness of space and
the immense distance separating the various worlds the
Imperium encompasses. In the early era of space travel,
ships would embark on generations-long journeys to
find habitable worlds. Faster-than-light travel was unreliable. Colonies disappeared into the dark, twinkling tapestry of space, never to be heard from again. Hundreds
of years would pass between contact between planets.
The complex computations required for foldspace travel
were only possible though the use of thinking computers, which were forbidden after the Butlerian Jihad.
While smaller spaceships were, and still are, capable
of inter-system travel, true interstellar travel, voyaging between star systems, was—and still is—so timeintensive and with an element of risk that non-foldspace
travel has few benefits.

A solution to this came with the development of the
Navigators of the Spacing Guild, humans mutated
through extreme exposure to spice for this particular
purpose. Their spice-granted limited prescient ability
allows Navigators to safely guide an interstellar vessel
as it folds space. This allows starships to take nearinstantaneous journeys between star systems, enabling
communication and trade and keeping the Imperium
whole and intact.
Thus, the Spacing Guild has a monopoly on foldspace
travel and is the de facto sole supplier of transport
within the Imperium. Their ships, known as Heighliners,
are immense enough to contain all the transports and
frigates of a dozen Great Houses. All passengers must
abide by the Guild’s strict rule of non-violence and noninterference with one another while being transported
by the Guild, for fear of losing the right to book passage
with the Guild, however expensive it is. Without the
Guild’s ability to move trade goods between star systems, a House’s wealth is constrained, its power within
the Landsraad dwindled.
The ability to fold space is exclusive to the Guild and its
Navigators. Any attempts at computerized navigation
have been rigorously outlawed by the Butlerian Edicts,
though some attempts are made in secrecy to duplicate
the long-forbidden technology or to mimic the ability,
usually resulting in calamity or, at best, lesser quality.
Interstellar travel without foldspace is still possible, even
commonplace, but due to its relative slowness, those
who can afford to use the Guild’s services do so, and nonfoldspace travel is primarily reserved for those who can
neither afford it, have no urgency to their travel or delivery of goods, or would prefer their travel be done outside
the awareness of the Guild for a variety of reasons.
The Spacing Guild and Guild Navigators are described
on p.47.

I mperi a l S a rd a u k a r
Trained exclusively within the harsh environment of
the so-called ‘prison planet’ of Salusa Secundus, the
Sardaukar are the Emperor’s feared shock troops that
he and he alone commands. They are how the Emperor
holds the Landsraad at bay, the ever-present threat of
the Sardaukar looming above all. So great is the fear
that the Sardaukar strike into the Landsraad that the
Emperor regularly wears the uniform of an officer of the
Sardaukar, to remind his enemies and allies alike of his
command over them, though he has not trained as one.
Indeed, the Sardaukar training regimen is a brutal one
that costs many cadets their lives, due to its rigors and
the harsh environment on Salusa Secundus. Those that
survive, the resulting soldiers, are fanatically loyal to
House Corrino and their Padishah Emperor, cultivating
a reputation for being the most fearsome troops within
the Imperium.
Sardaukar battle uniforms are white, and ritually
stained in blood. They can wear whatever clothing and
armor are required for a particular battle or assignment. But the Emperor usually wants his enemies to
know what they face; such is the fear they inspire.
Each is usually equipped with a variety of armaments
as required: helmet, sword, dagger, sidearm, throwing
knives, personal shield, as well as a variety of concealed weapons, ranging from shigawire garottes in
their hair, poison needles, flip-darts, weapons in fake
digits or teeth, etc. Their most favored weapon is the
blade, but their battle suits never include a scabbard
as it is never sheathed.
Sardaukar are also trained in covert operations, disguise, infiltration, psychological warfare, and piloting. Each is more than a match for a score of normal
soldiers and consider themselves peerless, save
perhaps only the highest-level Swordsmen of Ginaz. Their fighting style,
however, is distinctive, relying on teamwork, and
for this they are easily
recognized when
deployed in
combat.

L i f e W it h i n
t h e I mperi u m
The overwhelming majority of humans living within the
Imperium are subject to the Faufreluches and are as
such hereditary peasants whose destiny is to serve the
siridar governor appointed by the House, who in turn
serve at the will of the Emperor. This system ensures
that all understand their role within it, and the certainty
that one is acting according to the social order ensures
peace and relative ease from uncertainty. That is what
the nobility insists at any rate, and no one ever asks the
peasantry what they think.
The standard unit of currency is the solari, a denomination that has been tied to the value of the spice melange, again underlining the importance of spice to the
Imperium. This currency is enforced by CHOAM and
thus allows free trade everywhere, eliminating moneychanging and conversion that can potentially cut into
profits.
The common, and official, tongue spoken everywhere in
the Imperium is Galach. Regional and planetary variants
exist and many, many other languages are spoken within
the fiefdoms of the various Houses of the Landsraad,
but most official communication is done in Galach. In
turn, invented languages are commonplace, from the
finger-signs of the Bene Gesserit, battle languages
unique to each House, and Chakobsa, the hunting
tongue used by the Bene Gesserit and Fremen.
Traditionally, life within the Faufreluches system is
simple, with most people within it serving as some sort
of laborers or craftsmen, with some few appointed
positions of administration. Ultimately, everyone knows
that they, their families, and everyone they know serve
two masters: their siridar governor and the Emperor.
Resources and goods are produced, from the humble
pundi rice and moonfish exports of Caladan to the
priceless soostones of Buzzell, and are proffered to
the House for distribution within their domains and for
profit, exported off-planet and sold within the Landsraad, usually with CHOAM getting their cut. CHOAM,
in turn, distributes a portion of their shares as dividends
to the Houses that encompass the Landsraad and to the
Emperor himself, for there is a perfect overlap of the
two. Thus, the system sustains itself: labor provides the
Houses with their wealth which enriches CHOAM which
enriches the Houses and the Emperor.

Most Houses—Major and Minor—live lives of relative luxury compared to those they rule over. Whether
daunting fortresses or medieval-style castles, or even
sumptuous estates, those of noble birth usually have
excellent food and drink, ready access to spice, tailored
clothing, comfortable and spacious quarters, elegantly
appointed halls, technological devices such as filmbooks
or glowglobes, and are served by dozens, if not hundreds, of servants. They want for nothing save intangibles like power and influence, and usually have a cadre
of guards ready to defend from any attackers.

items is generally reserved for those with wealth. Most
households have no means of long-range communication, and their homes are lit by glowglobes or more
natural methods.
For the common folk, there is almost no sense of social
mobility. The notion that one’s life path can change
through self-determination, personal betterment, or
through action is a quaint one, held by few. The primary
means of changing one’s lot in life is to join the military
or enter the direct service of the House, perhaps as a
servant with hopes of distinction within that role. Only
by the will of one’s betters is life improved.

The strict prohibitions of the Butlerian Jihad prevent
much technological development, and though there
are many other means of machinery, overt reliance on
technology is somewhat distrusted by much of the
Imperium. People prefer to ‘do things the natural way’
where possible. Two groups, House Vernius of Ix and the
Tleilaxu (see p.42), each skirt the Butlerian edicts in their
own way, and many innovations in technology within the
Imperium are driven by them. House Richese is also well
known for its technology, although just as well known for
its unwillingness to push against Butlerian prescriptions
for the sake of innovation. Despite this, there still exists
a wide range of devices that characterize and modify
day-to-day life within the Imperium. Many such devices
are so advanced to be highly efficient, small, and easily
concealed. This often makes technology extremely
unobtrusive, offering a low-tech appearance to most
places.
Most significant technological items are described on
p.194-209, while an overview is presented here.

H o u se h o ld
T ec h n o l o g y
The most significant development is that of the suspensor, a gravity-defying device capable of lightening
any load. From large vehicles to personal rigs, suspensors are common throughout the Imperium. Similarly,
glowglobes, often fitted with suspensors, provide light
cheaply and can be moved wherever desired.

P ers o n a l
A rm a me n ts
Few within the Imperium have access to sophisticated
weaponry, other than members of the Houses and their
retainers, and criminals such as outlaws, assassins, or
smugglers. Most hand weapons consist of bladed and/
or pointed weapons (swords, daggers, etc.), garrotes,
or hidden darts and needles. Firearms include needleguns, slow-pellet stunners, maula pistols, and lasguns,
though the latter are restricted heavily and generally
only available for those in direct service to the noble
Houses.
The invention of the personal energy shield has transformed hand-to-hand fighting, and most fighters go
without any more than lightly armored battle dress. Due
to the Holtzman Effect the personal shield makes lasgun
usage extremely dangerous, as their collision causes a
pseudo-atomic explosion. Even to accidentally trigger
such an explosion is considered a breach of the Great
Convention and will see the responsible party brought
down by the combined weight of the Landsraad. For
this reason, the use of lasguns is shunned in warfare, as
a stray shot can bring catastrophic destruction upon all
the participants. See the sidebar on p.23 for more about
this.
Young nobles also learn to fight against servo-driven
combat drones, often controlled by their swordmaster
trainers.

I n d u stri a l
T ec h n o l o g y
Some level of manufacturing and heavy mechanized
work is handled by servos, which are little better than
gear and clockwork-driven automatons, incapable of
doing anything other than following simple orders,
physically manufactured into their construction. Suspensors, mentioned above, also play a large role in industry.

Over the millennia, many organizations have risen and
fallen within the Imperium, with the more powerful
achieving the status of Great School, venerable institutions whose very names impart confidence in those who
they have trained. Most Houses within the Landsraad
have one or more graduates of these schools within
their ranks, and many noble heirs are either sent to
these schools or taught their disciplines by graduates of
these schools.
The Spacing Guild, one of the most powerful of these
schools, is discussed prior on p.30.

T h e B e n e G esserit
Moving behind the scenes is the Sisterhood of the Bene
Gesserit, an all-female religious order that advises and
counsels all the Houses of the Landsraad, providing
them with wives, concubines, and counselors. Some
women within noble Houses receive Sisterhood training, whether through time spent within the order, at the
hands of a mother or relative who received this training,
or from a Bene Gesserit representative serving within
their household. Their more advanced training includes
enhanced physical and mental acuity and the ability to
control their bodies to extraordinary degrees, secret
means of communication and perception, and even to
discern truth or deception in those they observe. Historically, the Bene Gesserit have used spice to advance
their abilities, but the degree to which they are dependent upon it—if at all—is a closely-guarded secret.
Descended from a hybrid of Catholicism, Islam, Zen
Buddhism, Judaism, Hinduism, and other religions, the
Sisterhood has seeded the galaxy with their doctrine—
the Missionaria Protectiva—to preserve the members
of their order and give them influence, no matter
where they go. Though the Bene Gesserit serves all the
Houses and the Emperor, their true goal is the secret
genetics program, a grand exercise in controlled eugenics. Its ultimate purpose is the creation of their Kwisatz
Haderach, a genetic superhuman whose psychic and
physical abilities will bring peace to the universe, all with
the careful guidance and control of the Sisterhood.
The Sisterhood of the Bene Gesserit is described more
fully on p.55.

ble of making intuitive leaps and predicting human
behavior and outcomes with astonishing accuracy. As
such, Mentats are supreme strategists, administrators,
spymasters, and counselors, relying on a state called
the ‘naïve mind’, which allows them to assess incoming
information without prejudice or assumptions. Though
this is not as accurate as actual prescience, Mentats are
nonetheless essential to most House-level strategy and
action.
Most Mentats drink Sapho juice, extracted from the
roots of the ecaz tree, which enhances their mental processing abilities tremendously, but marks their lips with a
telltale red stain.

The Suk School
A necessity for any House is a qualified and skilled physician, capable of administering to the health and wellbeing of the noble family and its retainers. Many schools
of physicians exist throughout the Imperium, but none
have the prestige of the Suk School, whose graduates
are said to be as incorruptible as they are skilled, compassionate healers unfailingly loyal to their employers,
incapable of taking a life in even the most extraordinary
of circumstances.
The diamond forehead tattoo is the symbol of the Suk
school’s guarantee. This is invaluable, as the very lives of
a noble House are in the hands of their doctor, as well
as their secrets. This reliability comes with a price: the
Suk doctors are among the most expensive in the Imperium, a portion of their considerable earnings claimed
by their school.

O r a n g e C at h o licism
Many within the Imperium follow a religion known as
Orange Catholicism, named for the Orange Catholic
Bible, a controversial religious tract developed after the
Butlerian Jihad. Though the Imperium has no official
state religion and many creeds are followed within it,
Orange Catholicism is perhaps the most widespread of
the faiths.
The religion incorporates a wide range of religious
creeds from Old Terra, a fusion religion synthesized
by the Committee of Ecumenical Translators (the
CET). The goal of the CET was to create the ‘perfect’ religious book that could accommodate the
spiritual needs of all humanity, taking away from any
single religion the claim to being the sole proprietor
of divine insight. This collection of religious writings was compiled after the Butlerian Jihad from
a mixture of faiths, but particularly Judaism, Islam,
and Christianity. However, it is not simply a mixture
of religious texts thrown together, but a carefully
curated gospel for the new era of humanity. As
such many of its writings warn against the return of
‘thinking machines’ and the arrogance of humanity in
seeking to create such new life.
The publication of the Orange Catholic Bible was
marked with controversy, with great riots throughout the
Imperium, and it was denounced vigorously for centuries to come. Despite this, it is nonetheless the primary
source for the most popular religion of the Imperium.

Despite its origins, adherents of the Orange Catholic
faith do not generally participate in organized worship.
While there are priests and advisors, faith is a matter for
the practitioner. Like many of the religions of the Imperium, the Orange Catholic Faith is more of a philosophy to be studied than a set of rituals to be followed.
Adherents generally read and reread the OC Bible to
memorize its warnings and understand the truth of its
laws and moral guidance. Prayers are offered to God in
the same way they always have been. But many prayers
are also offered for the faithful to keep the covenant
and for humanity to not transgress its strictures. Those
who follow the faith generally consider themselves the
guardians of God’s covenant with humanity against
thinking machines. They watch for signs that someone,
in their arrogance, might push the limits of the strictures
past their breaking point and bring ruin to humanity.
Given the lack of organized worship, there is quite a
lot of divergence among adherents about the specifics
of the Orange Catholic faith. While they are all working from the same text, different conclusions might be
made over the same passages. Thankfully, this doesn’t
generally lead to conflict except among the most
fanatical followers. Study of the holy book is encouraged, and new interpretations are welcomed as they
lead to greater understanding of God’s will. It is up to
the adherent to decide for themselves which interpretations they will follow, and there is no shame in changing your mind. In fact, the truly faithful are constantly
readjusting the details of their faith as they come to
understand its complexities.

that, faith takes little part in their lives. In some places,
usually ones with a greater focus on technology (such
as Ix), the Butlerian strictures are an annoying limit on
innovation. However, even the most ardent technologist
might push these limits but would never break them.
Even if God doesn’t arrive to punish them and ruin their
House, the Imperium and Landsraad certainly will.

O t h er
F a it h s & P recepts
While most cultures across the Imperium follow the main
dictates of the Butlerian Jihad, there is a wide variety
of small religions across the various planets and communities. It is in these communities that faith finds its
most dedicated adherents. Religion generally reflects
the life of the people who follow it. Thus, communities
on barren desert planets and lush forest worlds have
different needs in their religious life. A simple fisherman
or water seller is not especially worried they will create
a thinking machine. They pray for good weather and a
plentiful harvest. So, in the feudal society of the Imperium, the faith followed by the nobility is often quite different from that of the workers and peasantry, no matter
how beneficent the ruler.
The folk religions of the Imperium are no less complex than those of the nobility, but they have a greater
emphasis on community. Religious ties and a shared
belief are often what bind the community together.
This means that many communities participate in group
worship, working together to ask for blessings from their
deity. The same is often the case for rituals like weddings and funerals, with the whole community coming
together to celebrate or mourn.
While many folk religions develop in communities on
planets across the universe, they are not as isolated
as you might think. There are many stories of pilgrims
(such as the renowned Zensunni Wanderers) who have
moved from planet to planet seeking homes or avoiding
persecution. Unsurprisingly, such groups change and
are changed by the cultures they encounter, and in this
way even the most obscure religion might draw from a
mixture of divergent philosophies.
One influence that cannot be understated is that of the
Bene Gesserit’s Missionaria Protectiva. This arm of the
Sisterhood makes a point of seeking out community
faiths and introducing new ideas into their mythology.
These new philosophies are designed to allow the
Bene Gesserit to manipulate the community through
their faith, and grant any Sister lost in a strange community a way to ensure her survival. The Missionaria
Protectiva is so widespread that many communities
(openly or clandestinely) have a representative or
agent of the Bene Gesserit among them leading their
faith as a priestess, perhaps even unaware of her connection to the Sisterhood.

Votes are allocated by the size and power of each
House within the Landsraad, with Houses generally
holding multiple votes. The Major Houses have most
of the votes, while Houses Minor claim a lesser bloc,
and are unlikely to influence policy unless there is an
impasse. As a Major House, the Emperor’s own House
Corrino’s votes have considerable weight, as well, but
even he cannot outvote the rest of the Landsraad should
it unite against him.
The Landsraad meets regularly, the House heads from
across the Imperium converging to discuss matters of
great import, such as conducting trade and establishing
policy. The meetings are traditionally held on Kaitain, but
not always. Within the Landsraad is a select High Council
of House leaders, and this group intercedes in conflicts
between member Houses. The High Council has the
power to authorize whether declarations of kanly (p.206)
are legitimate, and to recognize when any House has
violated the terms of the Great Convention.

@ The Emperor must remain neutral in all conflicts
between Houses, as he must serve as an impartial
arbiter when disputes become matters for the
Landsraad to decide.

many virtues and abilities to contribute to the House’s
fortune, their worth is primarily for the alliances they
can make through marriage. Their fates are often
determined by the disposition of their parents and
the heir, whomever that might be. Many enter service
into one of the Great Schools, seeking to chart their
own course in life, and others attach themselves to the
Imperial court, seeking to perhaps better their station
outside their own House.
In some cases, the leader of a House might abdicate
to a trusted relative, whether a brother or sister, or the
Emperor himself may intervene and place a chosen
member of the House in control. The Landsraad might
intervene in circumstances where this is not clear or
contested. Finally, the Emperor could command a
House to divest itself of its holdings, to relocate, to
surrender property to another House, but ultimately,
he cannot strip a noble of their title, except in the most
extraordinary of conditions. This is a dramatic move,
and generally the Landsraad would rebel if this is done
indiscriminately, for if the Emperor is able to unseat
any noble with impunity, none of them are safe and the
Landsraad’s power is undermined entirely.
The most recent instance of this intervention was with
House Vernius of Ix, forced to become renegade when
they ran afoul of the Emperor for a variety of reasons,
specifically development of technology that violated

the prohibitions of the Butlerian Edicts. After a considerable fall from grace, House Vernius petitioned to
restore their status. This was granted, but the damage
was done, and now the House is but a shadow of its
former strength and is now more a technocrat confederacy than a true House.
The self-preservation of a House and its continuation
is its highest priority, and thus the head of the House
and their family are protected by a force of guards,
poison-snoopers, trusted advisors, and defensive
tactics. Heirs are trained in the arts of swordsmanship,
tactics, logistics, and negotiation, as well as gaining a
deep understanding of the history of the Landsraad, its
practices, and processes, so that they might lead their
House in the future. Many Houses bring Bene Gesserit
tutors to train their daughters, to add those abilities to
the strength of the House. In return, the Bene Gesserit often become wives or concubines of male House
leaders, bearing children as part of their secretive
breeding program.

L e g a l P r o cesses
o f t h e L a n dsr a a d
The primary means by which a House appeals when
its rights have been violated is by submitting a Bill of
Particulars to the Landsraad’s High Council. A formal
process, this is a legal document that details any grievances or offenses committed against a House, and
generally makes an accusation of one House violating the Great Convention. The matter is brought for
review, and the High Council votes on how to proceed. If the offending party is found guilty, a penalty is
levied, generally financial but sometimes requiring loss
of holdings.
When a ruling of the High Council requires such
a transfer of assets, a Judge of the Change is
appointed, usually by the Emperor. This position is
hereditary. The Judge’s duty is to preside over the
process and to report to the Emperor that all forms
are followed, and that the penalized House does
not behave egregiously or further violate the Great
Convention. Historically, all Houses respect the Judge’s
authority, but they may challenge any decisions the
Judge makes.
The most severe punishment to be levied by the
High Council is that of banishment, where a House
is divested entirely of its holdings and forced to seek
refuge, either on the outskirts of the Imperium where
the Landsraad does not extend, or even outside the
Imperium entirely, generally thought to be a death
sentence. In some cases, a refugee House may be
sheltered by another House, but this is rare, as it risks
Imperial disfavor—and likely consequences—upon
both Houses equally.

Open warfare is generally prohibited between
Houses except in extraordinary circumstances
such as retaliation or when sanctioned by the
Emperor, who uses this permission sparingly.
This keeps the Imperium relatively stable and
prevents innocent civilians—and resources—
from being harmed. Thus, one of the sole means
of waging war between Houses is under
specific terms and guidelines agreed to by
the Great Convention. These clandestine
engagements are called ’Wars of Assassins’, requiring a formal declaration and
limiting the participants’ choices as to
what weapons are allowed.
An Old Earth resource, the Book
of Assassins, outlines these
guidelines and methods by
which the War of Assassins might proceed, and
lists prohibited weaponry,
updated to include great
weapons such as atomics. A great portion of its
pages are devoted to
the various poisons that
might be used, the
best methods to do
so, and under
what conditions they are
allowed.
Kanly, an ancient
word from Old
Earth, describes a
certain type of War
of Assassins, ’the
art of vendetta’, a
particularly personal
dispute. A War of
Assassins might be
about a business
deal or political differences,
and an end could be
negotiated, while kanly asks
no quarters and expects no
mercy. A conflict along these
lines usually results in death
of a House’s head, heirs, and
household, or could even
extend to the destruction of
an entire House.

The most powerful single House in the Landsraad and thus in
the Known Universe, the Imperial House Corrino has held control over the Imperium since the Battle of Corrin, 10,000 years
ago, with only a few brief interruptions. A Corrino descendant
has sat upon the Golden Lion Throne ever since the foundation of the Imperium itself. The Imperial throne world is Kaitain,
center of the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV’s court. Their
original ancestral homeworld is the planet Salusa Secundus, an
inhospitable prison planet rumored to be the training ground
of the Emperor’s deadly shock troops, the Sardaukar.

HOUSE ATREIDES
House Atreides is a well-respected House, ruled over by Duke
Leto Atreides, who inherited the title from his father Paulus,
who was killed in a bullfight. Claiming descent from the ancient
King Agamemnon, son of Atreus, of Old Terra, the Atreides are
among the most ancient households of the Landsraad.
The ducal seat and Atreides homeworld is the water-bound
planet Caladan, thought to be a relatively humble planet,
primarily known for its production of pundi rice, an inexpensive
staple food consumed everywhere throughout the Imperium.
Their holdings are relatively technologically unsophisticated,
almost rustic, though the folk the Atreides rule are relatively
content, and live lives of simplicity and quality.
Duke Leto is as liked within his own domain as he is within the
Landsraad, where he is renowned for his wisdom, his compassion, as well as his shrewdness. Many other House leaders turn
to him for guidance, and his influence is so great that even the
Emperor has taken notice.

Ix, the ninth planet in its star system, is named for its number (IX), and is home to House Vernius, a Major
House. The inhabitants, Ixians, are famed particularly for technological innovation. Ixian devices are prized
throughout the Imperium, despite the degree to which the Ixians are thought to disregard the Butlerian
Edicts about the development of thinking machines. Many servos and other such cunning creations come
from Ix, and it is suspected that their advances in technology go far beyond what they reveal and are willing
to trade.
In the recent past, the ruling body, sometimes called the Ixian Confederacy, engaged in fierce competition with
House Richese, another rival in the field of machinery and technological development. Richese suffered mightily in
this conflict and has yet to recover fully.

( C o m b i n e H o n e t t e O b e r A d va n c e r M e r ca n t i l e s )
While the Imperial House, the great Houses of the
Landsraad, and the Spacing Guild seem the most
obvious powers in the Imperium, all of them are
beholden to and integrated with Combine Honette
Ober Advancer Mercantiles (CHOAM).This corporation has existed for millennia and is the ultimate arbiter of economic power in the known universe. Every
standard day, trillions upon trillions of solaris are
transferred through CHOAM, and billions of lives are
impacted. People live and die for the merest fraction
of this incalculable wealth, and whole worlds have
been scoured in the pursuit of the coveted directorship positions on CHOAM’S board. Through CHOAM,
power is delivered to the rulers of the Imperium and
those rulers are capable of anything to maintain their
grasp upon it.
Established in the proceedings following the Great
Convention, CHOAM’s official function is the regulation and management of all interstellar trade. Thus,
all commerce conducted via the Spacing Guild falls
under CHOAM’s purview. The sales of countless

goods and services are transacted under CHOAM’s
auspices; metals, lumber, pundi rice, whale fur, artworks, contracts securing the services of the Swordmasters of Ginaz, the machines of Ix and Richese, and
of course, the spice melange of Arrakis, to name but
a fraction of the vast array of goods, services, and
personnel administered by CHOAM.

a substantial portion is held by the Spacing Guild
itself, and the Bene Gesserit, who operate as silent
partners. A small number of shares are controlled by
private individuals and lesser organizations, typically
awarded by the largesse of a House or the Emperor
himself.
Shareholders are entitled to a commensurate share
of CHOAM profits, from which all meaningful wealth
in the universe is derived. While small private
fortunes can be amassed from the operations of
commerce on a single planet, these amounts pale in
comparison to those generated by interstellar trade
of any commodity. A land baroness on Chusuk may
live a comfortable life but unless she also has her
hand in the off-planet trade of her world’s superlative
musical instruments, her wealth and power are trivial
by the standards of the greater universe. Accordingly, the wages earned by the common people of
the Faufreluches are utterly inconsequential in this
economic structure.
CHOAM shares and directorships are hereditary.
Unless the Emperor himself chooses to intervene,
the offspring of a shareholder or director can expect
to inherit those responsibilities and benefits upon
the death of their parents. Naturally, this is a leading
motivation of intra-House intrigue as young nobles
desire not just the inheritance of title, but wealth,
or wish to see themselves land higher in the line of
succession than their peers. Over the ages, many
noble youths have fallen victim to poisoned food
or drink—called chaumurky or chaumas—simply
so their sibling does not need to split the shares to
someday be inherited.

processes they may find their general standing in
CHOAM rise. Truly impressive innovations can potentially bring a shareholder into the spotlight and into
consideration by the Emperor for a seat on the board
of directors.
Shareholders are expected to provide regular financial reports and keep detailed accounting. Official
meetings of CHOAM shareholders are infrequent
and never mandatory. The vast size of the universe
makes such meetings difficult to arrange at best, and
thus most official CHOAM business is conducted via
couriers transported by the Spacing Guild. Business
meetings between shareholders with common interests are more common but these are conducted as
part of standard day-to-day business.
Shareholders who are found in violation of CHOAM’s
operational rules will find themselves formally
censured. Those who have been found committing
minor acts of embezzlement or simple bad accounting will typically be fined or given a simple warning.
More severe penalties may include garnished profits
and oversight by outside parties appointed by the
directorate. Those found to have embezzled significant funds, interfered negatively in the business of
others, or otherwise committed grievous financial
wrongdoing may find themselves facing more severe
penalties, up to and including the loss of all shares
and membership in CHOAM itself.
Provided their annual reports maintain a generally profitable status quo most shareholders can
expect no interference in how they conduct their
business. Directives from the board are uncommon
but must be carried out by shareholders with haste
and efficiency. However, should loss be incurred
as a pattern, the shareholding House can expect
to be questioned, investigated, and even audited.
CHOAM auditors are as ruthless as those in service
to the Emperor’s tax collection and have left numerous Houses in financial ruin and at the mercy of their
peers.
Particularly important and profitable commodities
are entrusted only to those most loyal to the Imperial House. These most valuable interests represent
a double-edged sword for those responsible, usually
a House Major holding a directorship. Truly astonishing wealth is in the grasp of a House managing such
a commodity but endangering a vital trade will incur
the wrath of the Emperor, the other Houses of the
Landsraad, and perhaps less obvious parties. Naturally, such fortunes attract the attentions of rivals who
will do anything in their power to disrupt operations
to see them fail. Sabotage, industrial espionage, and
even assassination are prohibited, but not uncommon elements of doing business in CHOAM.

By necessity, control of spice production carries
with it the feudal rights to the planet of Arrakis,
the sole known source of melange. Arrakis is a
notoriously harsh world and while the possible
wealth a shareholder stands to gain from the
spice trade is staggering, so too are the costs
and dangers. The climate of Arrakis takes a terrible toll on both personnel and spice harvesting equipment, to say nothing of threats from
the local fauna.

Directorate meetings are conducted on a regular
schedule and attendance is mandatory. However, due
to the challenges of gathering individuals from diverse
star systems across the gulf of space, few directors
attend every meeting and often utilize proxies to speak
with their authority and vote in their places.
Meetings of the board are held on Kaitain under the
protection of the Imperial House. These gatherings
occur once each standard year for a general overview of CHOAM affairs and profits reporting and
take place over several days. They are attended by
directors and their proxies, and representatives of
the Spacing Guild and the Bene Gesserit who, while
silent parties in CHOAM, are sure to work in advancement of their agendas outside of official proceedings. The dinner parties and recreational lounges
surrounding the events are commonly believed to be
more productive for business than the actual board
meetings.
Directors are invited to share concerns and suggestions at certain points and with the Emperor present
these presentations usually amount to sometimes
subtle but often vicious maneuvering. Any gathering
of the board is a period of intense political intrigue as
they essentially amount to gatherings of the leaders
of the Landsraad and other great powers.
Meetings of the board may also be called to deal
with crises or opportunities as they arise. These meetings are technically mandatory, but given the necessity to quickly make decisions, attendance is never
total. Directors who fail to attend these meetings will
rarely be formally censured but may find themselves
missing important opportunities or becoming useful
scapegoats.
While the Padishah Emperor is required to consult
the board for major decisions, in practice his power
within CHOAM is near-dictatorial and only checked
by the maneuvering of the Landsraad and the influence of other powerful organizations. The Emperor is
likely to act subtly through third parties in exerting his
will amongst the directorate but is not above making
broad and public declarations when he feels it necessary. Board members rankle at these displays of
naked power but are largely reconciled to them as an
unpleasant fact of life. Still, the board is an influential
organization, and access to the Emperor is a prize of
incredible value.

E c o n o mic R e a lities
While the above overview paints a picture of CHOAM
as having relatively simple operations in truth it is a
messy, often chaotic organization. CHOAM accounting is formidable, but the unimaginable number of
transactions conducted each day makes it an essentially impossible task for anyone to glean anything but

a general idea of the actual sums involved. The annual
reports of CHOAM profits and operations are calculated to include significant margins of error, a fact of
which all shareholders are keenly aware when managing their own interests.
A certain amount of graft and embezzlement is
expected as a matter of course and tolerated provided the involved parties don’t blatantly show their
hand. With that said, rivals will undoubtedly do their
best to uncover illicit practices in the hopes of inciting
censure by CHOAM authorities. Wise shareholders
keep their embezzlement to a polite minimum.
This still allows ample opportunities for ‘creative
accounting’ practices. Specialists known as fincap
accountants with expertise in questionable bookkeeping are quietly employed by any number of
parties, including CHOAM itself which uses them in its
auditing procedures. It is unknown whether CHOAM
employs Mentats in these roles, but this seems likely.
Smuggling and piracy also play a role in business. It
generally falls upon the shareholders themselves to
deal with criminal interference in their operations. In
extreme circumstances the board of directors may
provide assets to increase security for a specific trade,
but these costs will always be ultimately borne by the
shareholder who requested them. More commonly, a
House will utilize its own military and police arms in
protections of its businesses or hire mercenary forces
directly.
It is also not unheard of for shareholders to permit
smuggling of commodities in their own control.
Accepting bribes from smugglers may at times produce more illicit profit than the legitimate trade of the
goods in question. Houses involved in this dubious
practice must maintain strong deniability in case it
comes to light.
Competition between shareholders in control of
similar goods can be ruthless and at times result in
the declaration of a formal War of Assassins. As a
body, CHOAM takes no part in these conflicts and
discourages such open violence between shareholders. Naturally, this is more obeyed in the form than the
act as House wars are always good for the business of
one party or another. CHOAM does offer neutral party
arbitrations for disputes, though these typically occur
before any blood is shed. By the time a declaration of
war or kanly has been made, resolution of the conflict
will likely fall upon the Landsraad itself.
While strife and intrigue are commonplace occurrences within CHOAM they should still be viewed as
exceptions and not the rule. CHOAM has functioned
and thrived for thousands of years and provides a
stabilized economic base for all the great powers of
the Imperium.

All Houses have some means of conventional space
travel, with spaceships capable of traveling from surface
to space and within a star system, and armed space vessels to defend their planets from incursion. These range
from lighters to great battle frigates, with a few other
types between. But the means of traveling from one star
system to another is beyond all but a few, and they are
inevitably restricted to slower-than-light travel, which
means that interstellar travel can take years, decades, or
even centuries, which is an infeasible limitation.
And so it is that more than the Emperor, Landsraad,
or even CHOAM, the Spacing Guild itself is the most
critical entity within the Imperium. Without the ability
to move goods across the universe, trade would grind
to a halt and all the Houses would face economic ruin.
Diplomacy would break down, and war would inevitably
break out on a galactic scale, as each House could no
longer depend on rapid transport of troops to keep
its holdings in line. Without the means of transporting
troops, the Emperor cannot hold his Sardaukar as a
sword above the collective neck of the Landsraad, and
the balance of power would shift irrevocably.

The Spacing Guild is quite aware of this, and acts
accordingly, extracting every solari it can from those
who use its services, working in tandem with CHOAM to
ensure a status quo that maintains their highly profitable
monopoly. For these reasons and more, the Spacing
Guild is as disliked as it is relied upon, and most Houses
regard dealing with it as a necessary evil. The Spacing Guild, in turn, schemes on its own to maintain its
unspoken command over the Imperium and all within
it, collaborating with CHOAM, the Bene Gesserit, and
even individual Houses within the Landsraad, as suits its
purpose. More than anything else, the Spacing Guild
seeks to sustain its existence, and that means they must
always have access to the spice melange, the most precious substance in the universe.

S m u g g li n g
Despite the Guild’s exclusivity on interstellar travel,
all Houses of the Landsraad have vessels capable
of spaceflight, though few are capable of safe and
reliable travel between solar systems due to the
incredible distances and time required. In addition
to these House-owned vessels, there is an inevitable criminal trade of those who wish to travel to
and from space and do not wish to do so under
the official auspices of the House governing that
planet. Reasons vary, whether fleeing persecution,
espionage, or the most basic of needs: greed.
Most planets in the Imperium have smugglers of one
sort or another, and Houses deal with them in various
fashions, from looking the other way, working clandestinely with them, taxing them heavily, or attempting to stamp them out. The smugglers, in turn, must
deal in some fashion with the Spacing Guild, creating
a case of willful blindness on behalf of the Imperium.
The Guild clearly has some arrangement with these
smugglers, allowing them access to their Heighliners, likely for exorbitant fees, but their policy of
strict confidentiality and refusal to let the Emperor
audit their books means that people and other illicit
goods move from system to system through exactly
the same means as legal transport, and none but
the Guild are aware of what is moving where.
As the most valuable substance in the universe,
there is an entire industry devoted to smuggling
spice from Arrakis and into the hands of various
Houses and even the various Schools for their own
stockpiling. Arrakis’ spice smugglers are many
and resourceful, openly defying the Houses that
have held the planet, whether it be the Richese,
Harkonnen, or later the Atreides. So precious is
the spice that all are willing to pay dearly and risk
exposure to maintain spice reserves that cannot be
tracked or accounted for. The Guild, meanwhile,
keeps track of the quantity of spice leaving Arrakis
and who it is held by. They cannot hope to track it
once it reaches the open market or the Houses that
purchase it, but they are quite aware of how much
spice is out there and who holds it.
In some ways, smugglers are the only members of
the entire Imperium who stand outside the Landsraad and the control of the Faufreluches system.
Outlaws and criminals, the ranks of smugglers are
often the refuge of those on the run, and smugglers are often romanticized in ballads and stories,
a refuge to any who would choose to live on their
own terms. In truth, though, most smuggler bands
are as regimented and disciplined as any military
company, hardened folk who are driven by desperation to a life outside society.

on less reliable methods, and space travel before and
without the Guild—even still—was hazardous and slow,
with many more ships lost to the darkness of space or
destroyed in transit.
Spice and its properties changed this fundamentally,
and the Guild adapted to its use, just as its Navigators
mutated to meet the needs that interstellar navigation
placed on their minds, particularly the necessity of prescience. Over millennia, the Guild dominated all space
travel, until the current age when its services are the
sole means by which faster-than-light space travel can
be accomplished. The Guild is highly proactive when
dealing with any threats to its hegemony over space
travel, relying on CHOAM, and if need be, the Emperor,
to exert pressure on any threats to its exclusivity.

G u ild N av i g at o rs
The quality of prescience and ability to perform the
complex calculations needed to plot space jumps safely
require Guild Navigators, also called Steersmen, to consume massive and concentrated quantities of spice, far
in excess of that consumed by any other sapient being.
They eat it and must continually breathe an atmosphere
of aerosolized spice gas, requiring navigators to remain
in sealed chambers when on Heighliners and mobile
spice tanks on the extraordinarily rare occasion when a
navigator ventures outside Guild facilities.
Through processes unknown outside the Guild, Navigators are recruited from childhood and exposed to vast
quantities of the spice, becoming mutants. Their eyes
take on the characteristic blue-within-blue, their heads
grow, features become grotesque, temples swell, their
limbs extend and reposition, and their fingers and toes
grow to incredible lengths, fins developing between
their digits. Navigator voices change dramatically
and require translators to interpret into Galach. Fully
mutated Navigators are often described as fishlike in
appearance, and require a constant diet of spice, swimming weightlessly on suspensor fields in mobile tanks
full of spice gas. These mutations are commonplace to
their kind, and Navigators become increasingly mutated
as they age and advance to different stages of development. They wear formfitting garments that allow them
unhindered movement within their tanks.

S pice M u t ati o n
a n d P rescie n ce
As described prior, until the discovery of the spice
melange, faster-than-light space travel was controlled
by thinking computers. After the Butlerian Jihad, such
devices were forbidden, limiting space travel considerably, making it less safe and thus threatening to isolate
the scattered worlds humankind had settled upon.
With Tio Holtzman and Norma Cevna’s invention of the
Holtzman engines enabling foldspace, ships were vastly

faster, but were limited to the degree by which longrange jumps were possible. Without prescience, space
travel came with the risk of utter destruction, a ship
emerging into unfavorable conditions—such as the path
of a star or other celestial body.
Once the psychic and mental benefits of extreme spice
usage, such as prescience and enhanced computational
abilities, were discovered, these qualities became essential to the Guild, which had formerly used navigational
computers to calculate the distances for faster-than-light
travel. With the mutations conferred by heavy exposure
to spice, Guild Navigators were able to calculate safe
paths, computing and predicting the near-infinite variables involved in an always-moving galaxy.

As the only providers of system-to-system travel, the
Guild can influence a war’s outcome simply by refusing to transport frigates from one location to another
or allowing more rapid transit to the side it favors. The
Guild does not sell weapons, does not fight wars, but it
transports arms, soldiers, and warships readily, its fees
a ‘soft method’ of throttling the movement of arms and
troops throughout the galaxy.

Another curious and significant side effect to Navigator
prescience is that it has the effect of shielding that particular Navigator and their actions from other forms of
prescience, even extending to those nearby or in close
collaboration with a Navigator.

The mightiest and greatest starships in the Imperium,
the Heighliners produced for the Guild are marvels of
engineering, though much of their internal structure and
architecture is concealed, known only to the Guild itself
and those involved with their manufacture. Estimated at
roughly 20 kilometers in length, Heighliners are cylindrical constructions, their immense holds capable of holding thousands of smaller ships and their contents within
them, from the smallest lighters, bulky cargo transports,
combat frigates, and even, on occasion, capital ships
such as the Emperor’s own mobile palace.

Able to encompass entire cities, Heighliners are entirely
spacebound vessels, too great to land within an atmosphere. Their faster-than-light engines are capable of
’folding space’ to move across the galaxy at nonrelativistic speeds, enabling rapid transport from one star
system to another. Guild Heighliners are sufficiently
armored to survive the rigors of this travel, and while
there is no record of any Guild ships using any armaments, it is similarly unknown whether they possess any.
To attack a Guild ship would be financial and political
suicide, and it is possible that this is their sole means of
defense. To attack the Spacing Guild is to assault the
very structure of the Imperium: that should be enough
to deter any aggression against them.
None outside the Guild know how many Guildsmen
crew a Heighliner, though given their size the number
is likely to be tens of thousands of laborers, engineers,
technicians, and other specialists, all piloted by a
single Navigator.

S p a ce T r av el
O u tside t h e G u ild
While the Guild controls all foldspace travel, it is
not entirely true to say they control all interstellar
travel. Some Houses have spacecraft capable of
FTL travel, which they can use to cross between
some close solar systems.
However, the Imperium stretches across distances that take even FTL drives decades or even
centuries to traverse. This means that Guild travel
is the only practical way to travel, and given its
almost instantaneous nature, it is by far the fastest
for even ‘short’ interstellar journeys. However, if
a House is forced to go renegade, FTL is a good
way to find a hiding place without needing to
bribe the Guild.

tems, going ‘dark’ while in transit. The Guild links with
ship communication systems and controls (and likely
filters) all extra-vehicular communication. If absolutely
necessary, one House’s ship can speak to another, but
the Guild is monitoring all of this communication.
Ships traveling on Guild Heighliners must submit
manifests of all cargo they carry, as well as the identities
of all personnel being transported, giving them unrestricted insight into the affairs and trade practices of all
those they serve. The Guild not only knows what goods
are being transported, they know who is going where,
giving them a clear picture of any House’s status and
activities.
Finally, and most significantly, vessels within a Guild
transport are absolutely prohibited from interacting
with one another, in any fashion. The Guild’s greatest
strength is the guarantee of security while in transit, so
Houses who are mortal enemies may travel parked next
to one another within a Guild vessel and expect utter
safety. In some cases, the Guild may even be transporting ships on opposite sides of a conflict to the site of
their future engagement.
The penalty for disobeying any of these Guild restrictions is inevitably lack of access to the Guild’s services,
whether short-term or for longer, depending on the
severity of the infraction. Without space travel or
interstellar communication, a House is cut off from the
Landsraad and the rest of the Imperium, deprived of
trade and ultimately, of spice.

G u ild P o licies
As the exclusive provider of system-to-system space
transport, the Guild can, and does, impose drastic policies and restrictions upon those who they convey. All
agree with these conditions because the alternative is
neither desirable nor acceptable.
The first edict is that passengers on Guild vessels are
absolutely forbidden to leave their own ships, save for
the most extraordinary of circumstances, and only when
so explicitly permitted by the Guild. Trips outside one’s
vessel are limited to conveyance via a Guild shuttle to a
Guild-controlled facility, resembling a lounge or transit
hotel, where negotiations or communication may be
held. Guild personnel staffing these facilities are always
unmutated humans, specifically chosen for their blandness of appearance and affect.
Ships within a Guild Heighliner or other Guild transport
are expected to shut down their sensors and any surveillance capabilities, as well as their communications sys-

Traveling on a Guild Heighliner is thus a relatively casual
experience. Other than the brief vantage of seeing ships
entering the Heighliner’s hold, there is little to see. Once
the Guild has connected to a House’s ship’s communication and sensor systems, each ship is self-contained.
Passengers are free to do whatever they choose to while
waiting.
There is no sense of velocity, no shift in gravity, no appreciable clues that the Heighliners are traveling at fasterthan-light speed. Guild Heighliners make many stops
as they gather passengers from adjacent star systems.
After an interval—which could be minutes, hours, or even
days—the Guild contacts the ships it has transported and
informs them that they have reached their destination
and can disembark and land at their own convenience.
The amount of time one spends on a Guild Heighliner
has little to do with the amount of time it takes to actually
fold space, which is near-instantaneous.
It is entirely possible for a Major House, or perhaps the
Emperor himself, to commission transport alone, but
such an expense is beyond the means of most and done
only in the most extraordinary of circumstances. In these
cases, it is highly likely that the Guild will only agree if
the reason for this transit aligns with their own purposes.

The first Mentat came into being as the result of a
wager between Erasmus and Omnius, regarding humanity’s usability. This altered the course of the universe.
Omnius bet that a human could not be improved into
a logical being, regardless of Erasmus’ efforts. Erasmus
accepted the wager, and Omnius selected the wildest
looking child it could, an enslaved person on the planet
of Corrin. Erasmus chose a regal sounding name for the
child, Gilbertus Albans, so that others would hear the
nobility in it and respond accordingly.
Erasmus encountered countless failures before finding
an approach Gilbertus would respond to. Eventually,
the boy began displaying the first human computermirroring cognitive and calculation abilities that rivaled
thinking machines. With that step established, Erasmus
began teaching Gilbertus how to organize his thoughts
and think logically as a computer would. This intensive training, higher recall, and conditioning allowed
Gilbertus to remember everything. The man processed
information at lightning speed, reciting observations,
computer level calculations, and maintaining numerous tangent conversations with ease. The two formed
a familial bond that inspired the independent robot.

A prevalent rumor has followed the Order of Mentats
since the time of Gilbertus that babies are taken from
their homes to begin learning the art. The younger the
child, the more likely they are to succeed. While it has
been lucrative for the Mentat Order to remain silent on
the matter, it is, in fact, false. The ability to become a
Mentat is rare and only a fraction of a fraction of a percent possess the capability to do so. That ability can be
harnessed and trained at any age.
Rumor has it that every Major House and anyone of sufficient means has their children undergo an assessment
by a senior Mentat teacher, a test to determine their
suitability. If found acceptable, the parents are offered
the following choice:

The Order of Mentats prefers to start training recruits
from childhood. Research and millennia of experience have shown that children able to bond with
their parental structure are able to relate better with
non-Mentats after becoming Mentats. It is believed
that those initial developmental years establish a
baseline personality and loyalty that is built upon.
While Mentats approach complex issues from a more
neutral standpoint, it is critical for the acceptance of
the outcome that they relate to their employer. The
reason for their training is kept secret from the students, whether in a school or learning under a single
instructor.
It is rumored that Bene Tleilax have abducted
newborns to test if the transition to a corrupted, or
‘twisted’, Mentat is less complicated with a younger
subject. To date, no records of the outcome have
been discovered. See Twisted Mentats (p.61) for
more information.
The curriculum is identical for the first handful of
years, whether the young Mentat-in-training is taken
to an official academy or trained by a private advisor.
Training at this stage resembles training any student
of their age would take, with a gradual increase in
the difficulty of tasks on a weekly basis. The taskings
are regulated per student, with more gifted students
receiving more computations until they are increasing
at a percentage rate suitable for their group.
The course of study focuses on expanding the storage capacity of each student’s mind through presenting increasing amounts of data for them to retain and
repeat back to their instructors. The first object is
accuracy of the data, then volume of data retained,
and lastly how quickly the data is repeated back to
the instructor. The instructor encourages physical
activity and provides time for the students to do so.
By the end of this early training, their instructor can
assess the capabilities of all the students to a specific
degree of accuracy.

M e n t at T r a i n i n g
f o r N o n - m e n t at s
Mentat training is intense and essential for the
development of mental abilities. Anyone receiving
this training gains a better insight into their universe, and it can be used to improve their cognitive
abilities to some small extent. For instance, at the
Emperor’s request, Gilbertus Albans took in Anna
Corrino to do Mentat training to improve her focus.

The next stage involves more physical demands on
the young Mentats, placing them in hostile, dangerous, and extreme conditions. By this age, the students excel at the foundations of being Mentats, and
the next step in their training is to implement different stresses and dangers they may encounter, during
which they are expected to remain calm.
This level of training is intense and generally lasts
for a year or two at most. The foundation of the first
stage allows for an accelerated second stage. All
future Mentats are taught the basics of combat, and
their ability to read the slightest shift in body movement makes them exceptional combatants.

Upon reaching a specific threshold in their development, every Mentat-in-training is told the truth about
their training. Some have deduced what has been transpiring and others remain unaware. They are provided
the choice to continue their training or to decline and
go back to their daily life. The Mentats that decline go
into the universe with their new training and discipline,
frequently finding work for Minor Houses that cannot
afford a full Mentat advisor.

B ec o mi n g a M e n t at
The students who decide to continue their training receive the final years of Mentat conditioning,
which forever changes them. This turns them from
highly-gifted students into true Mentats, worthy of the
name and capable of handling all the tasks required of
them. Many pupils never proceed beyond this stage,
and it is rare that anyone is trained to this degree outside of a Mentat training facility.
To increase their marketability, each Mentat is taught
a specialty in demand at the time. The highest-scoring
student of each class can choose the specialty they
desire, creating an air of competition within the school.
The three most frequently requested specialties are
assassination, strategy, and archives.

M e n t ats a n d t h e
K n o w n U n i v erse
Generations ago, the Order of Mentats established a deal
with CHOAM to provide employment for their members
and aid the empire. The employment varies from archivist
to advisor to strategists in the court of Emperor Shaddam
IV. Many find themselves in service to various Houses as
political advisors, military counsels, sanctioned teachers for
younger Mentats, or to train future leaders in the fundamentals of Mentats to increase their own focus.
The Bene Gesserit themselves have a great need for
Mentat training, and their own Mentats are frequently preconditioned Reverend Mothers.

TRUTHSAYER

Some Reverend Mothers can enter a truthtrance, giving them the ability to
detect lies and falsehoods. Traditionally, the Padishah Emperors have kept a
Truthsayer near at hand to keep their people honest and help them root out
any kind of insubordination... having a window into the inner workings of the
Imperium from a well-embedded, loyal Reverend Mother source is also valuable
to the Bene Gesserit.

Still in training, initiates are not yet full-fledged sisters. Some women, particularly those whose families pay to have them educated by the Bene Gesserit,
will never become a Sister and will never be made privy to many of the order’s
secrets. However, even these novices know more than they let on. They may
appear fresh-faced and inexperienced, but these young members of the Sisterhood are not to be underestimated.

This mysterious Sisterhood is one of the most ancient
schools of the Imperium. On the damp, inhospitable
planet of Wallach IX (see p.83), the Bene Gesserit
Mother Superior guides humanity with a subtle hand
from the massive Mother School complex. Women from
around the Imperium go there to endure the physical
and mental conditioning the Bene Gesserit are famous
for. So renowned are they, that even the Houses Major
and Minor pay to have their daughters educated there.
In the school complex, initiates learn control, discipline,
and loyalty to the Sisterhood.

H ist o ry o f t h e B e n e
G esserit S ister h o o d
Almost 20 years after the Omnius Scourge’s initial wave
of destruction, a mutated version of the deadly retrovirus
appeared again on the planet Rossak. This new version of
the plague, which was later called the Rossak Epidemic,
had an even higher mortality rate than the original.
Raquella Berto-Anirul and Dr. Mohandas Suk, future
founder of the Suk School, were dispatched to the planet
by the Humanities Medical Commission (HuMed).
On the surface of Rossak, Berto-Anirul treated patients
and searched for an effective remedy. However, she
faced hostility and resistance from the local population
and their leaders, the Sorceresses of Rossak (following).
Eventually, she contracted the new retrovirus herself
and almost succumbed to the devastating disease. Her
friend, Jimmak Tero, treated her with healing waters
from a pool deep in the Rossak jungles that only he and
a few other Rossak outcasts knew about.
Some combination of the flora-infused water, the retrovirus that raged through her body, and the harsh environment of Rossak itself changed Berto-Anirul on a cellular
level. When one of the Sorceresses tried to poison the
doctor, she realized that she could transform the toxin
into something harmless with her own biochemistry,
allowing her to survive the assassination attempt.
Not long after, Berto-Anirul went on to lead the Sorceresses and transformed their organization into the Bene
Gesserit Sisterhood famous across the Imperium today.

@ This arcane organization has a plan for all of
humanity. With gentle coaxing, political alliances,
social maneuvering, the occasional veiled threat, and
the rare assassination, the Sisterhood focuses the
Imperium on the direction of its choosing and toward
the future they believe is the correct one.

Depending on the living conditions of a planet, the current culture, and a variety of other considerations, the
Missionaria Protectiva might choose different narratives
or versions of the Panoplia Propheticus to circulate.
After the Missionaria Protectiva completes its work on a
planet, any Bene Gesserit can identify particular phrases
and imagery from the collection of the Panoplia Propheticus even millennia later. These recognizable features
provide a known religion or belief that a Sister can tap
into for support thanks to her understanding of the
Panoplia Propheticus. By using the myths and superstitions dispersed throughout a planet by the Missionaria
Protectiva, a Sister can make herself seem like a legend
come to life, allowing her to work with or even exploit a
local population.

B ene G esserit T raining
Members of the Sisterhood go through extreme
instruction and education to learn how to control their
own bodies and the bodies of those around them.
Mastery of these skills may appear supernatural or
superhuman but are the result of diligent practice from
the learner. Not all can withstand the harsh mental
and physical conditioning the Bene Gesserit put their
students through.

As they train, Bene Gesserit work to discipline their
minds and assert control over every part of their bodies.
This prana-bindu conditioning encompasses a body’s
musculature and nervous systems, giving them the ability to isolate the movements of individual muscles. They
can use this command over their own bodies to stop
their hearts, appear dead by slowing their heartbeats or
breathing, strike an opponent with uncanny precision,
work on complex technology that requires supreme
dexterity, or even perform delicate surgery that needs
an inhuman level of precision.
The Sisterhood uses prana-bindu control in their unique
form of martial arts. Called the “weirding way” by the
Fremen (p.71), this hand-to-hand combat style uses
prana-bindu training to a devastating level. An experienced member of the Sisterhood can fight with almost
superhuman speed and movements. With such minute
control over every muscle, only the Emperor’s Sardaukar
rival their deadliness.

Because of their incredible physical prowess, members
of the Bene Gesserit can also take advantage of Voice.
By modulating the timber, pitch, and cadence of their
words, a trained member of the Bene Gesserit can
compel a listener to follow her commands. A vulnerable individual subjected to Voice will follow almost
any orders, from physical actions to changing their very
thoughts. Strong Reverend Mothers, the deaf, and iron-

The Bene Gesserit order also puts an emphasis on
detailed observation. The tiniest flick of the eye or hesitation in speech will give a Sister a mountain of knowledge about whether someone is telling the truth, hiding
something, or has a separate agenda (although only
a Truthsayer knows with absolute certainly). The way a
jacket folds might indicate a concealed weapon. Favoring one leg might hint at an old injury and a potential
weakness to exploit. Bene Gesserit are trained to be
perceptive and insightful. This training overlaps considerably with that of the Mentats and is often instilled
through a similar process to Mentat methodology.

Perhaps the greatest tool in their arsenal of abilities is their
extensive conditioning in the arts of interpersonal communication: whether conversation, oratory, negotiation,
diplomacy, and even seduction. Bene Gesserit Sisters are
adept at detecting and following verbal and nonverbal
cues, directing communication to serve their goals, such as
learning more about a subject than they suspect, implanting ideas or emotional responses subconsciously towards
a favorable result. Furthermore, this extends to human intimacy: conditioning subjects into ‘sexual imprinting’ where
their sexual gratification is explicitly tied to that Bene Gesserit, heightened even to the degree of addiction.
These, and other subtler methods, make their members
consummate spies and political operatives, achieving
the ends of the Sisterhood while exerting little overt or
direct influence. This is a long-suspected and mostlyaccepted consequence to sharing one’s bed with a Bene

Gesserit-trained spouse or concubine: that they may
be subtly influencing their partner to view the Sisterhood favorably and to take actions that serve their own
agenda, even if subtly and unconsciously.

Additionally, throughout their education, members of the
Sisterhood learn a variety of ways to communicate with
each other. Key phrases, such as “on that path lies danger,”
alerts a Bene Gesserit to look for a secret message from
another member of the Sisterhood. They may use hand
signals or coded dots (p.208) to give each other information they do not want to provide to outsiders. Communication between Sisters may even be centuries removed from
each other as in the unique terms or imagery used in the
Panoplia Propheticus (p.55) on different planets.

T h e T r u t h s ay er ’ s
T r u t h tr a n ce
Some extraordinary Reverend Mothers can enter a truthtrance, allowing them to identify when someone is lying.
This ability, both celebrated and feared throughout the
Imperium, is sought after by those looking to negotiate,
solidify trade agreements, or even interrogate a prisoner. The Padishah Emperor always has a Bene Gesserit
Truthsayer by his side. While most Truthsayers need a

special Truthsayer drug (p.208) to enter a truthtrance,
a few exceptional Reverend Mothers can choose to go
into this hypnotic state at will.

The Agony
The agony is an old tradition from the first days of the
Bene Gesserit. Raquella Berto-Anirul was the first to
survive and gain all the benefits of the agony. In this trial,
a Reverend Mother candidate imbibes a fatal poison and
must use her control over her own body chemistry to alter
the toxic chemical composition into something harmless.
If a Sister manages to neutralize the poison and lives,
she becomes a Reverend Mother. Reverend Mothers
become receptive to genetic memory. This is known
as Other Memory, a collection of the personalities and
memories of previous Reverend Mothers. This Other
Memory can provide wisdom, advice, and guidance to
a Reverend Mother as though speaking through the
echoes of the past. It is only available when one Reverend Mother is on hand to bestow this gift, however.
Other Memory can pick and choose what to reveal to specific Reverend Mothers, however. The Kwisatz Mother (p.54)
is a special case and has more interaction with the past
Reverend Mothers in the shared Other Memory than any
other living Reverend Mother, even the Mother Superior.

A ttit u des T o wa rd
t h e S ister h o o d
Because of the noble and distinguished reputation of
their education, many families of the aristocracy send
their daughters, wives, and other women in their lives to
the Bene Gesserit for instruction. This perpetuates the
cycle of keeping the families of the Houses Major and
Minor invested in the organization… and the influential
women of the Imperium loyal to the Sisterhood.
With their far reach across the Known Universe, many
different factions are willing to ally themselves with
the Bene Gesserit. They have a stake in CHOAM, for
instance. Even the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV married a Bene Gesserit of Hidden Rank.
Despite their significance within the Imperium, many
do not trust the Bene Gesserit or actively disapprove of

Beyond their political and social dealings, the rumors
and suspicions about their abilities give the Bene Gesserit a certain mystique. Though the Sisterhood keeps
many of their powers, like their control over their internal body chemistry, secret, some are well known. For
example, the Padishah Emperor always has a Truthsayer
on hand. The unusual, mysterious abilities of the Bene
Gesserit are the result of intense training but seem like
magic to the layperson.
Between their discreet, evasive movements within the
political and social circles of the Imperium, their knowledge of the business of the Imperium, and their incredible abilities, many view the Bene Gesserit as witches.
Whether that has negative or positive connotations
depends on the individual, their circumstances, and
sometimes the individual Bene Gesserit involved.
The Bene Gesserit, themselves, seem to encourage all
aspects of their reputation—positive, negative, supernatural, and esteemed. The more tools at their disposal,
the more options they possess to guide the Imperium in
the direction they believe is the right one.

T h e L it a n y
A g a i n st F e a r
I must not fear.
Fear is the mind-killer.
Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.
I will face my fear.
I will permit it to pass over me and through me.
And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path.
Where the fear has gone there will be nothing.
Only I will remain.

Among all the powers and factions found in the Imperium, none are as universally respected as the graduates
of the Suk Medical School. When the great and powerful
seek the hands of a doctor it is to the Suk that they go.

H ist o ry
The Suk School was founded by the legendary Dr.
Mohandas Suk soon after the end of the Butlerian Jihad.
Dr. Suk was instrumental not just in humanity’s efforts
in that war, but to its very survival against the thinking
machines. The collection of doctors, researchers, and scientists he assembled has arguably never been rivaled and
it was this group that formed the core of the Suk School
in the aftermath of the war and the signing of the Great
Convention. This private institution became the premier
center for study of medicine in the Known Universe.
Doctor Suk’s principles guiding the advancement of the
human mind through mastery of the human body are very
much present in the school’s teachings, and his mandate
to do no harm to another human being guides every
graduate. Though admission is costly, the Suk School has
continued to train medical practitioners and provide a
place of research and collegial review for millennia.

A dmissi o n
The school provides education and training for thousands of roles from simple medical technicians to the
master physicians that attend the nobility of the great
Houses. Admission is theoretically open to all. However, enrolling in even the school’s most rudimentary
courses is a great expense and competition for entry
is fierce. As a result, admittance is largely afforded to
those who not only meet the high standards of intelligence required by the school, but those who can also
afford the fees. The school does make some effort
to seek out promising individuals who receive their
education pro bono, but these students will find themselves indebted to the school for decades, if not the
rest of their lives. All graduates of the institution are
required to remit a portion of their fees to the school
for the duration of their careers.
Once accepted, students find themselves undergoing an intense education not just in practical medical
matters but in the liberal arts, as well. The Suk School is
no mere trade school from which workers are churned
out, but an institution that produces practically trained
but critically minded thinkers. Even the most modestly
trained medical technician can declaim the core philosophical rhetoric of the school and defend it if need be.
Technicians and medical aides may spend up to a
decade in their training before being certified in their
field of study and graduated. These individuals most

commonly return to their patrons and serve in their
intended capacity, but some may find employment
through the school’s extensive network of connections.
Students studying to become full Suk doctors spend a
similar length of time in course work and being tested
before completing their training in the Inner School.
Those incapable of passing the entrance exams will
need to find employment as highly trained medical
orderlies and common doctors.

T h e I n n er S c h o o l
Admittance to the Inner School is possible only for those
students able to pass rigorous testing in both medical
knowledge and philosophical matters and willing to
shoulder the astronomical costs of such an advanced
education. Those who make the cut find themselves
subject to years more education in practical medicine
and enduring the infamous Imperial conditioning.
Suk doctoral candidates must master a staggering
body of information and its practical application. They
are trained in a comprehensive knowledge of human
anatomy and pathology and can make complex and
accurate diagnoses with only minimal aid from advanced
instruments. They are also trained in numerous aspects
of chemistry and molecular biology, enabling them to
synthesize custom medications to meet the needs of
every specific patient. The regimen of coursework is
interrupted only by thousands of hours assisting instructors in surgery and practical medicine.
The expertise gained from this training cannot be overstated. A graduate of the Inner School possesses one of
the most superlative medical educations in all of history.
A Suk doctor can make insightful diagnoses even in
challenging circumstances, perform emergency surgery,
manage a patient’s pain, and do it all with the assurance
of a seasoned expert.

D ro p o u t s
While most of those admitted to the Inner School
do go on to graduate, a small number are psychologically broken by the demanding and relentless
training. These individuals usually find employment as proctors or low-level instructors for the
school itself, but some few do end up practicing
medicine in the wider universe. Even a failed student from the Inner School possesses a knowledge
and skillset of great value.

S u k D o ct o rs
It is only upon the completion of the conditioning that a
student is allowed to graduate. A graduate of the Inner
School is also permitted to wear their hair in a ponytail
bound with a particular silver ring.
Suk doctors are commonly employed by all the great
powers of the Landsraad as personal physicians, but also
as medical overseers for armies, directors of medicine for
planetary governors, and as lead researchers in medical
industries. Some Suk doctors choose—or are invited—to
serve the Suk School itself as researchers and instructors.
Suk doctors are not cheap, and their services come at
an exorbitant price, a portion of which is always remitted
back to the Suk School as a condition of their graduation.
Suk doctors are forbidden to act without payment, and
for this reason most Houses of means retain a Suk doctor
permanently, choosing to pay the higher rates than to risk
a delay in treatment while the doctor’s fees are negotiated or arranged.
No matter their ultimate vocation, a Suk doctor is in
possession of a formidable mind, a skillset of incalculable value, and the trust of the most powerful people in
the universe.

While Tleilax is a planet of secrets, they are not mysteries
that anyone wants to uncover. Tleilaxu products are used
all over the Imperium by all the Houses. But most people
find the nature of these products unsettling, to say the
least, and know that if they understood more about how
they were made they would be sickened to the core. So,
their customers are content to not ask questions, buy their
products anyway, and denigrate them to assuage their
guilt. The only thing anyone really knows is that most of
their technology is grown using ‘axlotl tanks’, although
the nature of these tanks remains a mystery. It is generally
believed that uncovering the secrets of these tanks is the
key to understanding all the Tleilaxu technology.
Officially, the Tleilaxu take no part in Imperial politics.
They insist they are simple scientists, only interested in
expanding their knowledge. They only sell their biological wares so they might subsist and fund their research.
Otherwise they have no interest in the dealings of the
Imperium and its people. This is, of course, a lie. Like
any other agency, they have spies and pawns in all corners of the Imperium looking to advance their agenda.
While they do not openly advise the Major Houses,
sit among the Landsraad as the masters of a planetary
domain, or work in direct service of the Emperor like a
Truthsayer, they meddle as much as the Bene Gesserit.
While their precise agenda is unclear, they broadly seek
to control the Houses with the products they sell them.
Their agents seek out the secrets of these Houses—
their weaknesses and desires—so they might sell them
exactly what they want. Something so essential that
their customers will do anything; agree to anything, to
get more. In this way they hope to one day make puppets of the entire Landsraad.
The biological products available from the Tleilaxu are
myriad and usually bespoke. You tell them what you
want made and they make it, from guard dogs to augmented agents to slave workers who will never revolt.
The Tleilaxu will provide. However, they are particularly
renowned for the following products.

Originally designed as entertainers (a service they still
perform) Face Dancers also happen to be the perfect
spies. They are certainly used by the Tleilaxu as their
primary agents. The main skill of a Face Dancer is the
ability to change their body and features to mimic
anyone, male or female, fat or thin, even tall or short, to
an intimate level.
While the physical ability is imparted in their creation, it
is their training that makes them truly deadly. They are
gifted with prana-bindu skills worthy of a Bene Gesserit.
This allows them the control over their muscles and physical augmentations that they need to transform along with
frighteningly fast reflexes. Coupled with an eye for detail,
a Face Dancer can mimic the gestures and mannerisms of
whatever disguise they take on. This not only makes them
incredible spies, but equally deadly assassins.
Thankfully, those skilled in hyperawareness can often
spot a Face Dancer, but most people wouldn’t notice if
their own mother was replaced by one.

T wisted M e n t ats
Another ‘people product’ in secret demand by many
Houses are the specialized ‘twisted’ Mentats produced
by the Bene Tleilax. Standard Mentat training makes
most Mentats moral and truthful people. They learn that
bad or corrupt data produces bad calculations. While
most Houses want someone honest and loyal, other
nobles want a Mentat that can lie and cheat so they
might create more devious plots. Generations ago, the
master genetic manipulators, Bene Tleilax, discovered a
way to train twisted Mentats at their own Mentat training academy. The discovery is kept a secret to all, with
only a few knowing of the possibilities. One of these few
is Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, thrilled and willing to pay
an exorbitant amount to have the twisted Mentat Piter
de Vries in his service.
The Tleilaxu are adept at manipulating the personality
of the Mentats they produce so they can cope with the
contradictions in the corrupt training they give them.
This often produces Mentats who are skilled assassins.
The training regimen for twisted Mentats involves the
Bene Tleilax breaking the Mentat’s mind down and
rebuilding them in whatever fashion their customer
requested. The exact process of this was different per
student and request. This may have required life-anddeath encounters, extreme experiences from pure pleasure at one extreme to torture at the other. By the end of
their training, the twisted Mentat is apparently loyal to
their employer, their minds malleable to the wishes of
the Bene Tleilax. They regularly have secret commands

Gholas
Perhaps the greatest and worst thing the Tleilaxu can do
is bring people back from the dead as gholas. Publicly,
little is known about the process by which they take a
dead body to their axlotl tanks, apparently restarting its
biological processes and making dead flesh live again.
This means that it is usually only done when people die
young or from battle wounds. The body will continue
to age, and at a certain point the system is just too old
and degraded to function. The process usually destroys
some of the more delicate tissue, necessitating new
eyes, but that is the least unsettling thing about a ghola.
To date, no ghola has ever been able to remember
their past life. This means they look and sound like
the person they once were but know none of their old
friends or family. So, the Tleilaxu often make them to be
used as disposable agents and workers, but only among
the Tleilaxu. They can be quite personable and are far
from automatons, but they are never who they once
were. This makes most people see them as somehow
‘soulless’. For this reason, very few people ever request
a ghola, but the Tleilaxu have been known to offer them
as gifts for a variety of nefarious reasons.
Tleilaxu often make gholas simply because they can;
continually looking for a way to bring someone back
with their memories intact. Should they manage to
unlock the secret of restoring memory to gholas, the
ability to bring loved ones back from the dead as they
were would make the Tleilaxu unspeakably powerful.

The irrelevance of the gun and the laser in the universe necessitated the development of many new
approaches to combat. The Sardaukar are deadly
fighters, brutal and remorseless and implacable. The
Fremen are rumored to produce warriors of great skill,
if rarely seen. But few surpass the skill of those trained
on Ginaz.
Ginaz is a waterlogged planet in a small, out of the
way system ruled over by a relatively small and outof-the-way House. Its swordmasters, however, are the
most talented and deadly wielders of the blade seen
in any galaxy.

The school is generally believed to have been
founded by the renowned swordsman Jool-Noret. But
this is not entirely true. He was a master of 93 fighting
techniques and promised to teach his skills when the
time was right. Unfortunately, he was killed in his sleep
by a freak tidal wave before he ever found the right
moment. So, while he never taught a single student,
the masters of Ginaz have based their teaching on
the object lesson of his story. There is no time like

the present, and skills you never teach will die with
you. That is not to say they will teach just anyone,
but to the right student, nothing is hidden by these
legendary fighters.

Ginaz Training
Capable of taking on multiple foes at a time, singlehandedly and remaining confident of victory, each
swordmaster of Ginaz undergoes the most rigorous and
exhausting of training regimens, designed to inculcate
both physical discipline and martial skill. Those sent for
training follow a strict regime as they move from island
to island on Ginaz. Each island has a different lesson to
teach, and those who fail to learn any of these lessons
are sent home as failures.
The lessons encompass survival, observation, and even
poetry, often before a recruit even picks up a blade. When
they move on to actual combat training it is often done in
heavy armor or on recalcitrant steeds to ensure the student
learns to fight in the most difficult of circumstances.

While the Sardaukar are shaped by their training to
follow the Emperor, to serve him above all else, the
swordmasters value the art of combat. They practice
each aspect of the process of fighting, from the care of
the weapon to the delivery of the killing blow. Nothing
is left to chance, nothing is unconsidered. It’s an intricate
process, evolved over generations. Just like the blades
the swordmasters use, their every motion is honed to
the sharpest of edges.
For this reason, Ginaz-trained swordmasters are in
demand throughout the universe, sought after as
bodyguards and assassins, or as weapons masters for
Major Houses (often with the side duty of training the
progeny of the House's leader). If Imperial conditioning
is the mark of the ideal doctor, then the training of the
Ginaz is the equivalent for anyone privileged enough
to wear a sword in the presence of a duke or a baron.
Ginaz training does not only concentrate on the use of
the weapon, as has been noted, but also on tactics and
the strategies of effective fighting and warfare. A skilled
Ginaz swordmaster is as useful plotting the grand sweep
of a battle as most Mentats, though, obviously, without
the same capacity to process information. They are also
often dispatched as advanced scouts, to survey the
locations their employer is to visit, searching for threats
or potential allies.

A rt o f W a r
The origins of the Ginaz style of fighting can be traced
back to the Butlerian Jihad. The need for reliable and
effective martial arts led many to reconsider older,
more obscure, traditions of warfare. Old Terran fencing was a significant influence on the formulation of
the Ginaz fighting style, utilizing its careful footwork
and speed as a means of confusing opponents, tricking
them off balance and using this opportunity to pierce
their shield with the outstretched blade. By combining
ancient approaches to the use of the blade with their
understanding of how the new shielding technology
functioned, the early Ginaz Swordmasters developed
the perfect means of puncturing them. And puncturing
the skin of their enemies. Over many years of constant
evolution, the style reached an apogee of effectiveness
and elegance.
To watch a swordmaster of Ginaz in battle is to witness
something both beautiful and horrifying. As they move
past their enemy, blood seems to blossom on the enemies’
body in several places at once, leaving the wounded
shrieking and those less fortunate in ragged heaps.
The pedagogical aspect of the swordmasters is an
important one. After all, they are masters, and that word
carries a weight of responsibility. The techniques and
approaches of the Ginaz need to be communicated and
spread, though only to those deemed suitable. Obtaining entrance to one of the Ginaz’s most esteemed

academies is not easy and, even for those Ginaz
pledging their loyalty to one of the various Landsraad
factions, teaching an unworthy pupil is rare. Despite the
enormous sums paid by the Major Houses to obtain
the swordmasters, few masters would try and force a
swordmaster to train someone deemed unsuitable. After
all, to lose the loyalty of a swordmaster would be foolish
and, potentially, deadly.

While some swordmasters do become assassins, this is
relatively rare. It is also rare for a swordmaster to turn
on their employer. This is not rendered impossible, in
the fashion that imperial conditioning guarantees, but it
is part of the Ginaz discipline that one holds to a bond.
Training is a pact made with your master, to learn all
you can and implement it as effectively and consistently
as possible. To do otherwise would be to scorn your
master’s teaching. The same holds true for an employer.
They have trusted you in employing you, and to betray
that trust in a cowardly fashion is fundamentally unbefitting a swordmaster.
This approach to refinement and to honor also colors
the ways in which the swordmasters fight. It is not
enough to simply be effective and highly trained. A
swordmaster must fight with flair, with finesse. The end
goal might be the enemy’s defeat, but to do so in an
ugly fashion is to have, in some way, failed. Fighting
should never be clumsy, or haphazard. It should be as
fluid and elegant as possible. Technique and purpose
perfectly aligned.
There are no recorded encounters of a Ginaz swordmaster encountering a large number of Sardaukar, and there
is some speculation over whether the individual flair and
skill of the swordmaster would eventually fail when placed
against the relentless advance of the Emperor’s soldierfanatics. Certainly, it is fair to say that, while the Ginaz are
peerless in individual combat, or in those knife-duels so
beloved of the Harkonnens, they have never been able
to assemble an army. This is, of course, in part because of
the size and impecunious nature of Ginaz itself.
Had such a formidable organization originated on a
planet with a more fortuitous location, who is to say what
it might have achieved? Though, as scholars love to point
out, would a planet with greater advantages in terms of
political power produce such a martial tradition?
All of this, is, of course, pure conjecture, but it is nevertheless interesting to compare the fact that those
places said to have produced the most dangerous and
effective fighting styles and forces are harsh backwaters.
Whatever the truth, the swordmasters of Ginaz remain
amongst the most consistently lethal fighters the universe has ever witnessed. Those who fail to respect their
prowess invite their own death. But at least it is sure to
be a most stylish death.

The handful of planets following are less than a glimpse
of the expansive universe humanity has conquered. The
timeline of the planets ends a decade before the Atreides
family moves to Arrakis.
As one of the most significant planets of the Known Universe and a focus of Dune: Adventures in the Imperium,
Arrakis is described in significantly greater detail than the
other planets, and the following section delves deeply into
its unique environment and denizens.

Languages: Galach, Chakobsa (the Fremen tongue)
Locations of Interest: Arrakeen, Carthag, Polar Sink, Sentinel Rock, Sietch Jacurutu, Sietch Tabr, and Windsack
Arrakis. Dune. The desert planet. A hell of sand, dust,
and heat. Little grows, the skies are clear of anything
resembling a cloud. The only time the horizon becomes
obscured is when the vast sandstorms begin to fill the
sky, sweeping down upon the unsuspecting with sufficient ferocity to strip flesh from bone, to mulch metal.
It is a world without pity, a world without the capacity for
weakness or mercy. Those unprepared for its harshness are
doomed to die, flesh reddened, mummified by the heat—
every drop of liquid drained from their flesh.
On Arrakis, one’s own skin becomes a threat, an impediment to survival. Every pore is an enemy—a means by
which moisture can escape, costing minutes of survival.
Everything that exists on Arrakis is in some way inimical to
human life. Almost every animal species is hostile. Even
plants, the sparse grass and hardier flowers, are just competitors for water. There is only one reason anyone would
choose to live on Arrakis: the spice melange.

T h e P l a n et I tsel f
Arrakis is a large planet orbiting the third star in the Canopus system. Arrakis is itself orbited by two moons—both
renowned for their markings. One bears a shape which
resembles that of a large, desert kangaroo mouse, a species which, while not native to Arrakis, has become something of a symbol for the inhabitants of the great desert—
the Fremen. The other looks as though a human hand had
been pressed into the surface by some ancient god.
The planet has zero precipitation, though the atmosphere
is at least breathable by humans—without the need for any
respiratory equipment. It has been hypothesized that the
oxygen percentage present on Arrakis must be because
of the enormous sandworms as well as sand plankton in
the open deserts. There is also an absence of widespread
plantlife capable of producing the quantity of oxygen which
tests of the atmosphere have indicated to be present.
There is much speculation over whether the existing environment of Arrakis was natural or, had in some way been
engineered. The Imperial Planteologists Pardot and Liet
Kynes have both speculated on this possibility.

@ Class IV: Humans can exist without protection.
@ Class V: Easily sustain human life without
preconditions.

T h e E n v ir o n me n t
Renowned for its extreme aridity and the difficulty of
survival on its surface, Arrakis is a desert planet. Vast,
rippling tides of sand cover almost the entire planet—
only at the northern pole is there anything resembling a
basis for building. At the most northern extremity of the
planet, there is a vast stone cap. This is large enough
and thick enough to build upon, safely and reliably,
secure against both the endlessly shifting sands and
the ferocious attacks of the sandworms, which pose a
constant threat to any major structure or vehicle located
on or near the desert. As a result, the northern pole is
the center of activity on Arrakis, and it is here that the
greatest concentration of the planet’s small population
is found. The Shield Wall surrounds the northern extent
of the northern cap, keeping it safe from the potential
influx of sandworms, and providing some protection
from the excoriating impact of the sandstorms which
can strip rock, metal, and skin in moments.
The planet possesses several extensive mountain ranges
which strike up through the otherwise endless desert,
where the planet’s various tectonic plates shifted and
aligned millennia ago. Significantly smaller outcrops of
rock are dotted throughout the vast desert and proffer
the few sanctuaries from sandworm attack available in
the great open expanses of sand.

Flora
As stated previously, Arrakis lacks any form of precipitation. There is no rainfall and nothing to sustain a varied
or abundant plant life. The few examples of plant life are
all highly adapted to surviving in the most inhospitable
of climates, with extensive root systems sunk deep into
the earth. These both anchor the plant in place, even as
the dunes relentlessly move and stir, and allow them to
gain some access to the few reserves of water the planet

possesses. These are sunk deep into the earth and are
only found using specialist mining technology.
While many of these plant species are found on other
occupied worlds, there are a number native to Arrakis—specifically, the creosote bush. The creosote bush
is widely remarked upon for its obnoxious odor, which
repels any creature who might think to feed on it, and
with shallow roots (in marked difference to many of
the other plant species), enabling it to move with the
undulations of the desert. The base of the creosote
bush is also highly toxic and capable of quickly killing
any creature foolish enough to ignore the plant’s rancid
scent. Despite its unprepossessing nature, the creosote
bush has become an emblem of fortitude and luck
to the planet’s indigenous inhabitants—the Fremen.
One of the very few occasions on which a member
of the Fremen might remove a part of their stillsuits
when outside of their settlements is when encountering a creosote bush. The Fremen have been observed
rubbing their hands with the leaves of the creosote
bush—the oils the plant’s leaves exude occlude the
pores in the skin, resulting in less moisture being lost
as a result.

F au n a
Just as the flora of Arrakis has adapted to surviving in
the harshest of conditions, so too has its wildlife. Most
of the animals living on the dunes are small, hardy,
and need almost no water to survive. They have also
adapted to survive on a diet of whatever they can find.
Dune is home to many resilient insects and arachnids—
particularly scorpions, which despite their poisonous
stings and aggressive nature have long formed a key
part of Fremen childhood games—and the centipede.
The origin of the centipede is uncertain, with many
asserting that it was originally native to Old Terra. It is
certainly not, however, native to Arrakis and was in fact
introduced to the planet by Pardot Kynes.
The kangaroo mouse is one of the more common
of Arrakis’ mammals and forms an important part of
Fremen religious belief. With its small body, long tail,
and exceedingly large eyes, the kangaroo mouse (or, as
the Fremen dub it, ‘Muad’Dib’) is also renowned for its
ability to leap implausible distances, hurling itself fearlessly across the sand. Perfectly adapted to the desert
conditions it inhabits, it can survive without drinking
water at all. It is for this reason, amongst others, that the
creature has become so important to the Fremen, who
see its survival as a mirror of their own.
Other, somewhat larger creatures also make their home
in the desert. The desert hawk and desert owl are both
common species of bird on Arrakis—frequent sightings
of both happen in the established cities at the northern
pole, and across the exposed sands. The birds often
shelter in the apertures of homes and civic buildings in

S a n dw o rms
Of course, as even the most careless and disinterested student of Arrakis’ native fauna knows, the most
impressive and dangerous of the planet’s inhabitants is
the sandworm. These gigantic beasts live beneath the
sand, burrowing deep below the surface, where they
form vast networks of tunnels. Called ‘Shai-Hulud’,
or ‘Makers’, by the Fremen, the sandworms course
through the planet, posing a terrible threat to any who
travel carelessly across the surface of the sand. The
largest of the species, found in the deep deserts, often
stretch to 400 meters in length and even the most
junior is usually capable of swallowing spice mining
rigs whole in a few delirious moments of violence. The
thick, sand-colored hide of the sandworm is nearly
impenetrable and is lined with something like scales.
To all but the Fremen, the sandworms are terrifying
monsters. They lurch up from the sand, consuming
anything that they encounter, their huge sightless
heads splitting into a mouth lined with endless teeth.
Drawn by any rhythmic noise on the surface of the
sand, sandworms can surge upwards and towards such
noises with terrifying speed and, against creatures of
such size, there are almost no weapons which can drive
them off. Only massive amounts of explosives—perhaps even atomics—are enough to seriously injure or
kill the largest of the sandworms, though they remain
in the most inaccessible desert reaches, far beyond the
range of even the most ambitious spice miners. The
sandworm is not simply a creature of limitless destructive power, however. It is a beast whose importance
to the planet of Arrakis, and from there, the universe
itself, cannot be underestimated.
The sandworms are so-called not simply for their place
of residence, but also for their diet. They consume
sand in vast quantities, funneling it into their stomachs
where it is digested, along with any organic matter
such as sandplankton. Sandworms are entirely suited
to Arrakis, being able to sustain themselves without
the need for any other life forms save themselves
and being incapable of existing in any location with

@ The next stage is the displacement of sand, the
faint bulge in the dunes as the sandworm begins
its approach. Sand flies out of the way as it drives
inexorably forward.

Arrakeen was once the capital of Arrakis since its
foundation until the coming of the Harkonnens. While
few doubt that the purpose-built city of Carthag is
more luxurious than the sparser, and older, confines
of Arrakeen, the former capital is definitely easier to
defend and, despite the depredations of the Harkonnens during their reign, the residency of the planetary
governor still retains a modicum of respect amongst
the indigenous population. Arrakeen is built with wide,
open streets, slablike architecture, and high stone walls
to shunt wind and to facilitate the almost constant
removal of sand. On the main thoroughfares through
the city, particularly the one leading to the governor’s
residence, date palms are grown and maintained—
despite the difficulty and expense of doing so. This is,
in most senses, a perfect illustration of how Arrakeen
is used by those who come from offworld. Arrakeen
is not a model of ostentatious luxury in the way that
Carthag is, but it is not truly of Arrakis.
While most homes and other buildings have water traps
and other features to try and catch what little moisture
there might be in the air, the most common means of
acquiring water is to buy it from a water-seller. These
merchants tend to drive small, mechanical carts with
large storage drums attached to the back. A small tap
allows water to be decanted into a personal water
bottle, or a large flue enables people to buy enough
water to fill a container for a whole family. These
merchants tend to own large areas of land just outside
Arrakeen, which are built into large-scale water farms,
with deep-sunk wells and converted stillsuit technology,
used to draw moisture from the air and retain it. While
such a job is essential to continuing life in Arrakeen, the
job is looked down on both by the off-world inhabitants
of the city, who consider it an uncouth practice, and
by the Fremen—for whom the idea of selling water in
this fashion is extremely distasteful. The location of the
water-sellers’ residences, however, does provide a key
to the architectural disposition of the city itself.
ARRAKEEN ARCHITECTURE
The outskirts of Arrakeen consist of large water-farms
and a few collections of still-tents where those Fremen
who operate within the city, but do not live within a
permanent residence, dwell. There is then a circle of
small dwellings, in which most of the working people
of Arrakeen live; these are the street cleaners, repair

Arrakis is held by the Harkonnens, their preference for
their own, newly built city, meant that the residency
lay empty. While Count Fenring (described on p.259)
is typically at the side of the Padishah Emperor, he is
also occasionally dispatched to Arrakis to observe how
the planet is being run and ensure that the spice flows
consistently. This has resulted in considerable additional
political and espionage resources being concentrated
in Arrakeen, as the Houses see Fenring’s presence as
being a route to earning the ear of the Emperor himself.

Arrakeen is a city that stands in defiance to the hellish
conditions surrounding it. It is built to endure, certainly,
but also to prove the power of the Corrino Empire over
both the planet itself, and the other Major Houses that
might seek to claim the fief. Many have some influence
over its disposition, from CHOAM to the Spacing Guild
to the Landsraad and even the Fremen, but ultimately,
from a legal standpoint, spice melange is the preserve
of the Padishah Emperor, no matter who may temporarily hold sway over its control.

Fenring’s formidable reputation as an assassin and skilled
duelist—said to be better than even one of the Emperor’s
Saudaukar—renders this a risky proposition, and the
intrigue concentrated around the governor’s residency is
careful, polite even. The assassinations that do take place
are carefully orchestrated and use the most sophisticated
of methods. There is little use of crude methods such as
hunter-seekers. Instead, most favor carefully administered
poisons which induce death while obscuring the cause.

Dmitri Harkonnen, upon arrival on Arrakis, quickly
decided that the relative austerity of Arrakeen architecture was not to his tastes. As a result, work began on the
creation of Carthag. The new capital city offered a level
of opulence and luxury that Arrakis had never previously
possessed. It is a series of beautifully constructed, carefully adorned and exquisitely rendered citadels.
CARTHAG’S LOCATION
The city’s location was carefully chosen, with the Broken
Lands serving as a highly effective shield against any
threat of attack from Arrakeen save from the air. By
making access on foot virtually impossible, Carthag was
insulated against a great deal of the varieties of political intrigue which make Arrakeen so dangerous. Visitors
from Arrakeen must travel by ornithopter, and, as a
result, can be tracked by Harkonnen security forces from
even before they have entered the confines of the city.
This position also ensures that Carthag is the first port
of call for mining vessels as they return from the desert.
Rather than laboriously making one’s way to Arrakeen,
it is possible for mining machinery to halt at Carthag
to refuel. This is another, entirely deliberate strategy
on behalf of the Harkonnens, enabling them to keep a
much closer eye on the spice brought in by their various
harvesters. The cynical have suggested that this also
enables the Harkonnens to assemble their own supplies
of spice, out of sight of many of the Emperor’s attendants and wardens. This is, again, entirely deliberate. The
current Baron Harkonnen is renowned for his mastery
of political maneuvering and for the acuity of his trade
deals—few in the Landsraad doubt that he has turned
Carthag into a spice manufacturing facility of some kind.
CARTHAG’S ARCHITECTURE
Carthag is a walled city, and heavily guarded. The
Harkonnens are both wealthy and paranoid, and it is
partly the constant fear of assassination that resulted in
the founding of Carthag. As with Arrakeen, the central
districts of Carthag are occupied chiefly by the palatial
complex constructed for the Harkonnen rulers. These
are huge—much larger than the governor’s residency—
and built entirely with offworld stone in a brutalist
fashion, a symbol of their pitiless character. Steep walls,
impassive stone faces, narrow windows, and an overwhelming dehumanizing aesthetic are characteristic of
the city.
POPULATION OF CARTHAG
The population of Carthag is substantially different from
the diversity of Arrakeen. There are almost no Fremen
in the city at all, and the few that are there are treated
poorly and with extreme suspicion, only remaining if
they have no other options. Most of the population are
city-dwellers or former offworlders directly loyal to the
Harkonnens, with a small number from other Houses the
Harkonnens either own or seek to curry favor with. There

is also a substantial deputation from the Guild, with
which the Harkonnens deal extremely carefully, ensuring that their space travel rights are absolutely secure.
Again, it is widely supposed that the Harkonnens can
maintain a special relationship with the Guild as a result
of their own secret supply of the spice.
The entirety of Carthag is essentially dedicated to procuring the favor of the Landsraad and the Guild. Beyond
the various mining and refining centers, the city is filled
with brothels and drinking establishments, as well as
clubs for the wealthy to indulge their various vices in. It
is a shopfront for everything the Harkonnens can offer to
those who pledge their fealty to the Baron’s strategies.
Whatever predilection one might possess, the various
lairs of corruption in Carthag are likely to offer them—
and in their most expensive and debauched form.
This reputation is only reinforced by the presence of
the current ruler of Carthag and the planetary governor of Arrakis itself, at least while his uncle, the Baron
Vladimir Harkonnen, remains off planet. Glossu Rabban
is renowned for his brutality and thuggishness. While
the Baron Harkonnen is praised for the sharpness of
his mind (however colossal and perverse his appetites might be), Rabban possesses no such redeeming
features. He is coarse and savage in his approach to the
Fremen and to Arrakis itself—exploiting it and the fief as
ruthlessly as he can. As virtually the entire population of
the planet knows, this comes at the order of the Baron
himself, but the frenzied nature with which the Fremen
are attacked and Arrakis is drained of its spice and
water… that is all Rabban.

governorship over Arrakis is both a weighty responsibility and a great prize, to be used strategically to reward
the Emperor’s allies or to be wielded like a weapon
against those who hold his disfavor.
Thus, the Corrino dynasty is able to use Arrakis as an
effective means of both securing the loyalty of the faction deputized to rule over the planet, and as an inducement (or punishment) to any House who might have
been perceived as a threat. This technique has continued to the present day, with the Landsraad constantly
divided against itself, as certain factions seek to undermine those who hold the fief while others endeavor to
build stronger relationships with them.
Certainly, the Minor Houses are not in a position to
side too openly against the Major House presiding
over Arrakis—the threat of a deficit in the availability of
spice might be enough to topple some of the weaker
factions in the Landsraad. The Major Houses are less
afraid of such an eventuality, though they too are always
ultimately at risk of their supply being cut off and their
stockpiles depleting.
It is forbidden to stockpile melange, but it is almost
certain that every House stores away quantities of the
material to ensure against the possible risk of being
deprived of a regular supply of the spice. The governing faction of Arrakis is always accused of establishing
a monopoly on the production and supply of spice, in
the same way that the Guild retains its monopoly over
space travel. This is one of the great risks of the position—despite the wealth and exalted status it confers,
it also possesses the ability to push a House into exile,
should the Landsraad or the Emperor himself come to
the conclusion that they have become too powerful. So
long as the spice continues to flow, no one really cares
too much what happens on Arrakis, but should production slow or cease, all eyes will quickly turn to Dune and
demand an explanation.
The Harkonnen rule on Arrakis has thus far been remarkable for its brutality, particularly towards the the Fremen,
who, unlike the city-dwelling natives, rebelled against
Harkonnen rule. In retaliation, the Harkonnens even go
so far as to hunt Fremen for sport, considering them as
little more than animals, underestimating the danger the
desert nomads present.
Under Vladimir Harkonnen, the ruling baron of the
House, and his nephews—Feyd-Rautha and Glossu
Rabban—melange production has increased through
the most violent and ruthless methods of extraction.
Regular pogroms are launched against the Fremen
to try and exploit their access to the desert and its
bounty. The Harkonnens have, however, also attempted
to spend as little money on the mining operations it
maintains as possible; this has left the various mining
apparatus in a state of some disrepair. Despite this,
the Harkonnens demand huge loads of the spice for

export—a tactic which has proven popular with the
Padishah Emperor, Shaddam IV.
The Harkonnens’ approach has, however, alienated
much of the Landsraad who regularly lobby for the
removal of the House, perceiving, not unreasonably, that
the Harkonnens' methods might prove successful in the
short term but are almost bound to compromise longterm productivity. There are rumors that the Padishah
Emperor is beginning to tire of the Harknonnens' rule of
the planet and may award the siridar feif to the increasingly popular Leto Atreides. It is also said, however, that
the Emperor fears the Atreides influence over the Landsraad and would rather have him removed altogether.
Who can say which eventuality ultimately transpires...
such is the endlessly unpredictable nature of the politics
surrounding Arrakis.

T h e F reme n
Descended from the Zensunni Wanderers who sought
refuge from persecution, the ancestors of the Fremen
have been upon Arrakis since before the Guild, even
before the Imperium. Their early years upon the
planet are lost largely to legend, though it is known
that they adapted quickly to the strange and harsh
environment of Arrakis and came to live in harmony
with it, though at an extraordinarily disciplined and
harsh equilibrium at the best of times. The Fremen
mastered the riding of sandworms, the most colossal
of all living things, and learned to coax water—life
itself—from the desert where there is none. They were
there upon Arrakis when melange became the most
sought-after substance in the universe. And even as
their planet became the most important in the cosmos
and as they became the subject of curiosity, inquest,
and hostility, the Fremen remained. Theirs is a culture
dedicated to a single principle: survival. Almost every
aspect of their existence is dedicated to this overriding goal. Survival at all costs. How else could they
have lived so long on Arrakis?

and resource and the means by which they contribute to
the survival of the sietch, even after death.
Such a concept is alien in cultures where a person’s
wealth is inherited or won in business and power is
typically accorded depending on the name you were
born with, and abhorrent to the Harkonnens. The way
of the Fremen is intimately tied to the continuing of the
Fremen way of life, to the tribe. Water is the singular
and continual focus of Fremen activity and culture. It
dominates everything; its absence dictating how the
Fremen have become such a distinctive culture.
This different view of water is often extremely difficult
for outsiders to adjust to; the act of spitting, considered
uncouth elsewhere in the universe, is considered a mark
of extreme respect in Fremen culture. To actively, and
knowingly, waste the body’s water in such a way is to
demonstrate the deepest loyalty and commitment.

A stilltent is created using the same technology as a
stillsuit, but expanded, enabling Fremen to sleep on
the surface of Arrakis when necessary and minimize the
loss of water as a result. It provides an effective shelter,
offering protection against sandstorms and the smaller
varieties of Arrakeen fauna. The Fremen prefer to take
shelter in their sietches; the exposure of the surface is
to be avoided whenever possible. And, certainly, no
stilltent can provide protection against the attack of a
sandworm or an enemy force.

Fremen duels to the death carry with them a great weight
of responsibility. The winner claims the water of the
loser, extracted from the loser’s body itself with a device
known as a deathstill. Duels are always fought without
stillsuits, as part of the practice of Amtal, or the Amtal
rule. Amtal refers to the practice of testing something to
destruction, with the intention of discovering its limits.
Testing a person without the protection of the stillsuit is
part of the process. It also protects the precious water
the stillsuit stores within it, of course, which is even more
important. The victor also takes on responsibility for the
vanquished’s kin and children—being expected to take
the loser’s spouse or children as their own, just as they lay
claim to their water. While life is long among the Fremen,
due to spice ingestion, it is not necessarily precious.
Water, however, always is.

Fremen follow a strange syncretic religion, which combines elements of the Old Terran Zensunni faith, but which
has been changed over millennia to something uniquely
theirs. Much of the faith revolves around the coming of the
‘Mahdi’, the Fremen messiah. There are dozens of different
prophecies surrounding the Mahdi, where he emerges
from, and how his coming is recognized.
The first and most prominent of these signs is that
the leader who guides the Fremen to paradise, who
avenges the numerous wrongs done to the people of
Arrakis, is not a Fremen. He is the ‘Lisan al Gaib’, or
the ‘Voice from the Outer World’, one in a tradition of
guides and oracles in Fremen culture who descend from
other worlds to offer guidance, to point the Fremen in
the direction of their ultimate destiny.
The Mahdi, when he arrives, is destined to incite the
Fremen in a great jihad, a holy war, which sets the stars
themselves alight with slaughter. The devotion of the
Fremen to martial pursuits is also linked to this, the need
to be ready for when the Mahdi finally comes—no one
wishes to be found wanting when the jihad is launched.
The history of the Fremen, as recalled in their oral histories, is filled with examples of persecution. They were
driven from planet to planet; whenever they settled,
they were soon subject to pogroms and oppression.
This pilgrimage, in search of a home, only ended when
they found Arrakis—a place so devoid of life, so impossible to inhabit that no one else would live there. Finally,
the Fremen had a home… that is, until the spice was
discovered and now even Arrakis was being hauled from
their grasp. When the Mahdi comes, however, all these
wrongs will be made right. The jihad, to the Fremen
mind, is a settling of scores with the universe itself.

The aptitude of the Fremen for combat, and their
ferocity in battle, is legendary. Harkonnen forces who
attempted to corral and subdue the Fremen upon first

arriving on Arrakis were quickly shown the folly of doing
so. Several well-armored Harkonnen patrols were lost
entirely. There are assertions that the unfamiliarity of
fighting on Arrakis gives the Fremen an advantage over
other troops. Certainly, the absence of body shields is
an adjustment for most soldiers in the employ of their
House. The Fremen eschew any such form of defenses,
as any shield generator serves only to attract the attention of sandworms from vast distances away. As a result
of this absence, the Fremen are also expert in the use
of weapons which have fallen into widespread disuse
elsewhere in the universe. This includes several ranged
weapons—crossbows and spring-wound maula pistols
in particular—foreign to the Harkonnen troops who are
sent to raid their settlements.
Relying on long-honed ambush tactics, the Fremen
make extensive use of their environment in any warfare.
They know the desert so intimately, and it is so unremittingly hostile to outsiders, that any opponent is swiftly
overwhelmed by the speed and brutality of their attacks.
These assaults seem to come from nowhere, the sand
suddenly seething with life—life almost as dangerous as
the sandworms and almost as hard to escape.

The most distinctive weapon used by the Fremen is
undoubtedly the crysknife. Made from the tooth of a
sandworm, each one is unique and bonded to its user.
The crysknife is never used by another and to lose it
would be a terrible dishonor for the owner. Obtaining a crysknife from Shai-Hulud renders each crysknife
sacred—after all, they are shed by a god. Over the millennia, crysknives have formed part of Fremen culture.
The Fremen have developed a rich series of traditions
and superstitions around these blades. The most widely
known is the fact that, once drawn, a crysknife cannot
be sheathed until it has drawn blood. The second, and
more impractical, is that no one outside of the owner’s
tribe can see the blade. To expose the crysknife to
an outsider—except during battle—is taboo, and the
crysknife must either be disposed of or else ritually
cleansed, to render it fit once more for use.

That is not to say, however, that the Fremen are not
equally aware of Shai-Hulud as a dangerous animal that
must be treated carefully. Over their lengthy existence on Dune, the Fremen have gradually established
a means of dealing with and guiding and directing
the sandworms, but never truly controlling them. The
Fremen have evolved technology to enable them to ride
the sandworms, using them to cross the desert at high
speed. Such ingenuity has required endless caution and
care. The Fremen understand the behaviors and moods
of Shai-Hulud intimately. Sandworms are attracted to
rhythmic noise, rising to the surface to defend their
territory, and it is for this reason that Fremen cross the
desert with such strange, asynchronous movements.
They deliberately make their footsteps inconsistently
spaced, confusing Shai-Hulud waiting below and minimizing the risk of being swallowed.
Fremen also utilize this knowledge to deliberately tempt
sandworms to emerge from the sand in the form of
the thumpers. These use a spring system to power two
clappers, positioned at the top of a stake which is driven
into the ground. When activated, a thumper emits
rhythmic vibrations into the sand. This brings nearby
sandworms racing to the surface, where the Fremen are
then able to mount them.
Mounting a sandworm is an incredibly dangerous
process—unsurprisingly. The Fremen carry two ‘maker
hooks’ for this purpose. These tools are long, slightly
curved pieces of metal, designed to latch onto the
segmented rings of the sandworms. A Fremen carefully
positions themselves to the side of the area in the sand
where a sandworm is to breach—this must be done
extremely accurately, else the Fremen is likely to be
either devoured whole by the sandworm or subsumed
into the vortex left by its passing and killed.
As the sandworm emerges and passes, the first hook
catches onto one of the sandworm’s rings, and the
second connects into the next ring. The first hook is
then used to pry open one of the sandworm’s rings.
These ring segments must be closed for a sandworm to
return below the sand, else the sandworm’s hide will be
irritated. By keeping the first maker hook in place, the
Fremen ensure the sandworm remains on the surface.
The second hook is used to carry the Fremen up onto
the sandworm’s back as it twists to try and allow the ring
segment to close.
The process takes practice and enormous courage, and
is a rite of passage for all Fremen warriors, even though
some die in the attempt. To become a worm-rider is one
of the greatest experiences in Fremen society. To ride
on the back of a god is to have embraced the ways of
the Fremen entirely.

As the Butlerian Jihad raged across the universe,
Caladan remained one of the few Unallied Planets
siding neither with the thinking machines or
League of Nobles. The war led to Piers Harkonnen
being stranded on Caladan for the remainder of
his days. Caladan and Salusa Secundus formed a
fishing worlds league to support each other during
the war under Vorian Atreides, who founded
House Atreides.
House Atreides has long ruled over Caladan and
created a near-democratic world. House Atreides
ruled the people with a fair hand under a duchy
and siridar fief of the Imperium. Fair and just treatment has endeared the Atreides to the people and
military alike and created a fiercely loyal populace.
Caladan’s military defense force is composed
primarily of a strong aerial and naval superiority, making it practically impenetrable to outside
forces.
Under the leadership of Duke Leto Atreides, military
power expanded into a small highly skilled task force
rivaling the Imperial Sardaukar. The skill and loyalty
of the Atreides troops, coupled with the Duke's
leadership make any attack on House Atreides on
Caladan foolhardy, at best.

Castle Caladan is the ancient home of House Atreides
and is constructed of stone, wood, and reinforced with
metal. The metal that lines the walls and ceilings is hidden
beneath the stone to maintain the old-world aesthetics
and is filled with rooms, halls, secret passages, and hidden
crannies to get lost in. The temperature in the castle is constantly cool, regardless of the season. Every few centuries,
a new room or hall was constructed to facilitate whatever
need that arose. The dining room is known to be as much
battlefield as diplomatic retreat for visiting nobles and is
famed for hosting lush events where the Caladan wine flows
freely. The vaulted ceiling contained a vibrant wooden pattern that catches the eye. The view from the upper floors of
Castle Caladan is breathtaking, overseeing the vastness of
Cala City all the way to the shadow of Mount Syubi reaching tirelessly skyward, accompanied by the roar of the great
Marius River flowing next to the castle.

Rain and water are the two most prominent features of the
planet’s ecosystem, making it a paradise for agricultural
economy, ample sea life, and tourism. Over 70% of the
planet’s surface is water, and there are three main continents. The largest and most industrialized of the three is
the Western Continent. Followed by this is the Southern
Continent that is mostly sprawling vineyard, and lastly the
Eastern Continent, hosting an indigenous population that
shuns their industrial counterparts and moves further inland
when encountered.

A heavily industrialized world with pockets of nature
ruled in an authoritarian manner. The populace works
in the factories, military, or battle in the arenas for the
pleasure of House Harkonnen.

Giedi Prime during the Butlerian Jihad under the
command of Magnus Sumi was an active member of
the League of Nobles. The planet fell to the thinking
machines, resulting in it being occupied and causing Sumi’s death. Once freed, after the war the planet
became the homeworld of House Harkonnen.
Giedi Prime is the vehicle House Harkonnen used to
acquire power and move from being a House Minor to
a House Major. Their focus on maximizing profit without regard to ethics propelled them to become a powerful House. They rule this planet through a mixture of
fear, a military state, and rewarding treachery, creating
a ruthless society.

The culture of Giedi Prime is one of oppression. Its
people have few rights and much of the populace are
enslaved. Those that were not enslaved could become
so at the whim of House Harkonnen. The economic
structure was built to move people towards the military
as the only escape from working in the industrial factories until an early death.

While once a beautiful world, generations of weapon
manufacturing with little regard to the impact on the
environment turned Giedi Prime into an industrial wasteland under a shiny, pleasant veneer. The Harkonnens
chose a few key cities to make immaculate for visiting
guests and there provide the illusion of luxury.

The capital of Ix is the underground city of Vernii. The
nobles live on the top levels of the upside-down city,
allowing them to look down upon the workers and
others that live in the warrens at the bottom of the city.
Diamond pillars support the rock roof, with walkways,
tube transports, and aerial vehicles allowing movement
throughout Vernii.
Ixian Majorius is the largest terrain city and the one most
visitors see, as it is home to the only visitor spaceport.
The Grand Palais serves as a palace for the Vernius
House and key administrative personnel. The palace is
reinforced and armored against attacks, to protect those
in power.

After the Butlerian Jihad, Ix rose to prominence for its
technology under House Vernius. The damaged surface
from the war and numerous storms led to the people
moving underground. The subterranean caverns provided a natural level of secrecy that Ix used to experiment with outlawed technology.
Ix defeated its rival House Richese, becoming the primary manufacturer of Heighliner vessels for the Spacing
Guild. Their success did not go unnoticed by Elrood
Corrino IX, who plotted with the Bene Tleilax to remove
House Vernius using a Face Dancer, a genetically created shapeshifter, to cause a riot among the lower class.
Then both Imperial Sardaukar and Tleilaxu conquered
the world, placing the Bene Tleilax in rulership of Ix for
a time, until House Vernius, with the aid of young Duke
Leto Atreides of Caladan, won control over the planet
back from the Tleilaxu and petitioned the Landsraad
to formally acknowledge their dominion. Restored to
authority there, House Vernius currently rules over Ix,
attempting to reclaim their former glory.

The two most valuable assets on Ix are intellect and
secrecy. The competitive nature of achieving the next
scientific breakthrough or breaking ethical laws means
little if your competitor or the Imperium discovers it. The
Ixians secretly dabble in artificial intelligence and robotics, but their progress is a closely guarded secret.

The culture of Junction is more relaxed than one would
imagine. The population is focused on flying and what
it takes to stay flying. The prominence of the Spacing
Guild and the Bank has made it a hub for those looking
to find anything in the Imperium.

Kaitain was untouched by humans or thinking
machines during the Butlerian Jihad and afterwards. House Tantor blasted the capital planet
Salusa Secundus with atomics, laying waste to it.
The current near-uninhabitable state of that planet
forced Emperor Hassik Corrino III to choose a new
seat of power. His advisors provided several alternatives, and Hassik III selected Kaitain.
The planet’s natural beauty, temperament, and
malleability made it an optimal choice for a new
capital world. Hassik III destroyed House Tantor
in retaliation for Salusa Secundus and wanted
to install a sense of confidence in the people
afterward, to prove House Corrino’s strength and
capability to move forward. Legions of Imperial
construction forces set out to build cities to parallel the planet's natural beauty.
The capital planet is a picturesque world of grace,
opulence, and abundance. Immense buildings
made of glass and metal reach skyward with
breathtaking art displayed throughout each city.
Each angle, stone, and tree has been precisely
planned to instill the perfect sense of wonder.

Kaitain is a glorious world and the Emperor paid for it
to be that way. Due to the move from devastated Salusa
Secundus, the Emperor hoped it would evoke a sense
of awe in anyone visiting this new Imperial throne world.
Kaitain is warm year-round with few clouds to obscure
the crystal blue sky, and only the rarest of storms occur.

Richesian culture places a high value on the balance
between success and family life.

A single artificial moon, Korona, once orbited Richese.
The satellite was built as a research station and illegal
smuggling spice den that successfully operated for decades before being discovered. After the Empire learned
of its secondary purpose, the moon was destroyed
during the Great Spice War. Some of the debris from the
destroyed moon rained down on the planet while the
rest went into orbit. Debris from Korona continued to
plummet onto the planet every few months, with some
burning up during descent and the rest striking the
planet and leaving craters in its wake.

Richese became the primary distributor of Heighliners,
colossal spaceships that could fold space, for the Spacing Guild. Not only the prime distributor of Heighliners,
House Richese was also responsible for spice operations
on Arrakis. The dominance of the Heighliner market and
spice operation led to several other noble Houses plotting Richese’s downfall.
The planet stretched itself too thin while engaging in
an economic war with the Ixian House Vernius, sending
Richese spiraling into bankruptcy. These economic woes
forced them to use substandard and cost-cutting tactics
to save the House and the planet. By losing the economic war, Richese was usurped by Ix, who became the
main Heighliner distributor.
In quick succession, Richese also lost control of Arrakis
to House Harkonnen. House Vernius dealt one last blow,
seeding rumors that all Richese technology was nothing
but dubious-quality versions of Ixian technology. Richese retained a vital role in the universe as a technology
planet but was diminished entirely but for their crowning achievement, Richesian mirrors, miniaturized power
chips that no other company can replicate.
Lastly, Emperor Shaddam IV destroyed the artificial

Bovko Manresa, first viceroy of the League of Nobles,
settled on Salusa Secundus during the Old Empire.
Manresa oversaw a refuge for humans fleeing the Titans
and housed the nobles after the destruction of the Hall
of Parliament. In that move, the city became the capital
of the League. The planet repelled multiple thinking
machine invasions.
Salusa Secundus was the capital of the Padishah Empire
for centuries. Emperor Hassik Corrino III relocated the
Imperial Throne to Kaitain after an onslaught of atomic
weapons by House Tantor. Hassik turned the destruction
into a boon rather than a flaw by converting the ravaged
planet into a prison. The harsh environment also led
to the perfect breeding ground for the Emperor’s elite
troops.

Tleilax was an Unallied Planet during the Butlerian Jihad
that sustained itself as an organ farm and supplied
enslaved people for resources throughout the universe.
They remained largely untouched by the war.
After the war and the ensuing millennia, the planet
became more religiously fanatical and insular regarding
outsiders. They continued to trade in enslaved people
and bio-technological advancements, as they genetically
altered themselves. Their understanding of genetics and
disregard for ethics empowered them to create a version
of Mentats training to corrupt their own Mentats

Also called the Chapterhouse, Wallach IX is home to the
Bene Gesserit and serves as their greatest training facility.

The history of Wallach IX is tied to a hatred of humanity.
Millennia ago, Yorek Thurr ruled the planet in service
to Omnius. Thurr, even ascending as a ruler, worked as
a traitor inside the League of Nobles for the thinking
machines in hopes of gaining more power and position.
He left human space to rule Wallach IX and undergo

the life-extending procedure. Upon gaining dominance
of the planet, Thurr focused on the eradication of all
human life. One of the many diabolic atrocities Thurr
masterminded was the Omnius Scourge, a deadly
airborne virus. Thurr escaped Wallach IX before the
League of Nobles initiated the Great Purge on the
planet. The devastated planet was taken over by the
cymeks, who ruled it until their destruction.
Wallach IX became the homeworld centuries ago to
its current rulers, the Bene Gesserit. The Sisterhood
is critical to the continued existence of Wallach IX, as
the planet would collapse economically without them.
The few exports are tied to their training and schools,
reinforcing their importance, and increasing their numbers with each passing day. Every Sister has stepped
on Wallach IX at least once, always for training on the
Chapterhouse, and later potentially for a meeting with
the Mother Superior or to receive special assignments.
The importance of Wallach IX cannot be understated,
and no vessel is allowed entry onto the planet or to
reside in space around it without prior approval.

C re ati n g
Y o u r H o u se
“Control the coinage and the courts-let the rabble have the rest.” Thus the Padishah
Emperor advises you. And he tells you: “If you want profits, you must rule.” There is
truth in these words, but I ask myself: “Who are the rabble and who are the ruled?”
—Muad’Dib’s secret message to the Landsraad
from “Arrakis Awakening” by the Princess Irulan

The House has only just acquired Minor House status.
They might have distinguished themselves in battle or at
court, or perhaps developed a device or skill that might
prove extremely valuable. At this point the House is
only a noble family with a small retinue and a little land
granted to them by their patron House Major, who controls the planet they reside on. However, as new arrivals
to the Imperial stage they have no real enemies and
little to lose. With time, they might rise to control their
home planet, and perhaps even beyond.

The House is one of the greatest powers in the universe.
It controls not only a homeworld, but a few other moons
and even planets besides, all managed by loyal Minor
Houses. The resources at its command are legion, and

its power is almost unassailable. Unfortunately, the
forces lined against it are just as powerful. Not only are
its resources coveted by its enemies, but they are also
looking to destroy the House out of fear it might one
day do the same to them. Perhaps even the Emperor is
worried that this House’s ambition might even turn to
the Imperial Throne itself...
Example: After some discussion, the group decides
to play an established House Minor, one looking to
move out from under the shadow of the House Major
they serve. They pick the type ‘House Minor’ and
name it ‘House Molay’.
The gamemaster receives 1 Threat per player to
begin each session.

HOUSE TYPE AND THREAT

The gamemaster has a pool of points called Threat
they can use to create all manner of problems and
difficulties for the player characters (see Threat,
p.155). How much Threat the gamemaster begins
with each session of the game depends on what
type of House the players have chosen (or attained
in the course of play).

@ Nascent House: no starting Threat
@ House Minor: 1 Threat per player
@ House Major: 2 Threat per player
@ Great House: 3 Threat per player

Having established the general level of your House, we
now turn to what it produces, or what it is famous for.
As most Houses rely on mercantile power and CHOAM
shares for their fortune, each House has developed a
specialty in an area of business or produce that is important to the Imperium. We call these areas of acumen
domains. Your House may have several of these, classed
as either primary or secondary domains.
A primary domain is the area your House is most famous
for. This is because it is something the House is considered to be one of the best in the universe at. Whatever
it is, the whole universe knows your House is the best
one to provide it. This might be a unique resource like
spice, but it could be a common product your House
is the unrivaled expert on. A primary domain need not
be especially glamorous, but its power is unmistakable. While many sneer at the Atreides pundi rice, it is
a staple food on hundreds of planets. For the Harkonnens, their control of spice has made them vastly wealthy,
but it is a power that can be taken by the Emperor, can
only be found in one place, and is coveted by every
other House and faction in the universe.

Gaining a primary domain is one of the ways a House
Minor can distinguish itself, although their patron House
Major may take all the credit until they can move out of
their shadow. No House Major is worthy of the name
without something they are regarded as being the best
at. While this monopoly does require resources to maintain, it invites little competition. A primary domain marks
such power that most enemies look for easier pickings.
However, when a House assumes it is unassailable and
an enemy does manage to challenge their primary
domain, the fortunes of the House can often fall quickly.
A secondary domain is an area that the House is known
for but is not their main source of income. However,
it is still lucrative. The House is considered a serious

contender in this arena of business, but is far from controlling a monopoly. They are vying with several other
Houses in their attempts to make it a primary domain
and the competition may be exceptionally fierce.
This means that a primary domain is a narrative aid to
explain what your House really does, but a secondary
domain shows where the House is in conflict and what
business direction it is moving in.
It is important to note that a House’s domains are not
the only areas of business or they are part of. Even a
Minor House will have several interests, and those of a
planetary power are vast. Just because industrial produce is not a domain for a House does not mean their
home planet is empty of factories. However, they can
only excel at a few things given the powerful competition among the Houses. So, for most Houses, it makes
business sense to play to your strengths and corner a
particular area of the universal free market.
It’s up to the player group to decide what the primary and
secondary domains of their House actually are. To help
you do this, we have provided several examples, broken

down into areas of expertise. You are welcome to pick all
your domains from the same area of expertise, but you
do not have to. It makes sense to create (for instance) a
farming planet known for its farm machinery as a primary
domain and its training for stewards and farm workers
as secondary domains. However, a military world known
for its arms manufacture might also be recognized for its
great operas and factory supervisors.
When you know what your domains are, you can then
use this information to decide something about the culture of your planet. In the examples above, the farming
House is clearly an arable world focused almost exclusively on farming. The military House may seem rather
eclectic, but maybe their operas are all based on great
battles and their supervisors run factories like a boot
camp to increase efficiency. The primary domain might
not lead this cultural detail either. The military House
might apply the grand style of opera and the precision
of a well-organized factory to its weapons design and
manufacture.

@ Machinery: Stage effects, scenery pieces, scenic art,
lighting and sound systems

ESPIONAGE

@ Produce: Information and secrets from other Houses,
probably by a particular specialty (such as military
secrets or blackmail information)
@ Expertise: Spymasters and agent handlers
@ Workers: Agents, spies, infiltrators
@ Understanding: Particular forms of espionage and
counterintelligence techniques

The next step forward from espionage is assassination.
To avoid chaos, the Great Houses agreed on a set of
rules for assassination to prevent a slaughter. These
‘forms of kanly’ are designed to limit both assassinations
and the inevitable responses and are ruthlessly enforced
by all the Houses. As such, they are also a lucrative area
of business.

@ Machinery: Assassination weapons and traps (hunterseekers, mines, bombs, etc.)

@ Machinery: Battlefield weapons, artillery, large-scale
shields, tanks

@ Workers: Assassins, thugs, infiltration specialists
@ Understanding: Means of assassination, infiltration

While war is rarer than assassination, no House wants
another to see they have a weak military, as that may be
considered an invitation. Military actions are costly and
logistically difficult, often requiring expensive Guild payments to move troops to another planet. But if you want

While few refer to it as such, slavery in many forms
is rife in the Imperium, as it is a feudal monarchy
at its core. On a daily basis people are bought and
sold, whether as indentured workers, new assets for
a House, or are conscripted into a House military.
Though few would call themselves slaves, their lives
are relatively constrained under the Faufreluches
system, and social mobility is all but impossible.
Indentured servitude is the norm, though this is
enforced more by social convention than directly by
the nobility.
This applies at all levels of society, not just for
laborers and farm workers. When a House requires
a Mentat they send details to the Mentat School
(or to the Bene Tleilax for a twisted Mentat) noting
the skills they are after. The school will then assign
them with a Mentat that suits those requirements.
While money still changes hands, the House is
really paying for the training their new employee
Mentat has received. Nevertheless, it is unclear how
much say the prospective Mentat has about their
new assignment, and their assignment is assumedly intended for life. The same can be said of Suk
School doctors or Swordmasters, and Bene Gesserit
concubines are assigned in a similar but not exact
fashion.
This trade in people applies not only to specialists, but to groups of soldiers, workers, medical
personnel, and many others. Trained people are
‘reassigned for money’ and are expected to be loyal
to their new employer, whoever they are. While
most will be well taken care of like any employee,
few have any idea what awaits them in their new
assignment. With their new masters in control of the
whole planet, and passage on and off that planet
controlled by the Guild, leaving is simply not an
option for most people.
Luckily, while people might be forced into their
new allegiance, not all Houses treat people badly,
and most treat them neutrally or even well. Many
noble families work hard to make sure their subjects
live fulfilling lives. Those born and brought up on
a planet might have all manner of career options,
so long as they serve their House. Some pyons, as
natives of a planet are called, may have little to no
contact with the noble House that rules them, and
simply fall under the jurisdiction of local authorities
or leaders.
Unfortunately, not all Houses are so magnanimous.
Some keep their populace cowering in fear and
treat their subjects as little more than animals, or
resources that can just be replaced when they ‘wear
out’. So, while life isn’t always cheap in the Imperium, it is regularly for sale.

Example: As a House Minor, House Molay has two
domains: one primary and one secondary. For a primary
domain, the player group decides to have an Artistic area of expertise. They choose poetry (Produce),
making their home world a haven for the arts, where
those accepted into their poetry groups are renowned
for creating the most incredible verses in the universe.
For their secondary domain, the group decides to
branch out into assassination, and picks ‘Assassins’
(Workers) from the kanly area of expertise. The group
decides that many of their poetry schools are actually
a front for training assassins, who are also taught to kill
with a certain poetic elegance.

The final element of creating the House itself is to select
its traits. These traits (see Traits, p.102 & p.142-143) can be
used as if they are traits of their own by any player character.
But only as long as they are recognized as members of their
House and their actions imply the reputation the House has
within the Imperium.

like the Harkonnen. This trait details the way the rest of the
Imperium sees your House and expects its agents to behave.

If a player spends 1 Momentum, they may apply one of
the House traits to their character for the remainder of the
scene. They may do this as often as they wish to spend
Momentum, for as many of the House traits as they like.

Example: House Molay has a single primary domain: its
well-regarded poetry. So, it has the trait ‘Artistic’. As the
House hides its assassination training camps and is looking to create a new name for itself, the group decides
the House has been plotting for some time, gaining the
trait ‘Secretive’ as its reputation House trait.

Each House begins with a trait for any primary domains it has.
This trait is the same as the area of expertise for that domain.

Other Traits may be gained (or lost!) by the House during
play, usually after an important event that changes their
reputation in the Imperium.

Each House also begins with a descriptive trait for its reputation. This might be ‘Honorable’ like the Atreides or ‘Brutal’

retire, an assassin might even have a more direct way
they intend to take over the position of Master of Assassins. How such promotion is handled depends on the
way the House is run, but each character should have an
eye on their own advancement.
If the player characters prefer to take on one of these roles
themselves, there is little reason not to. It would be a little
odd to have such a vital officer of the House working in
the field as the player characters do, but it is not unheard
of. In a small House Minor there may be little option when
they need a good agent. Your group may also prefer a less
direct form of gameplay (see Agents and Architects, p.7).
In the meantime, following is a list of common roles
among the noble Houses. Not every House utilizes
every position, and some might have multiple agents
serving in the same position (such as Advisor or even
Consort). However, the players and gamemaster should
take some time to decide which positions are filled in
their House and who it is that does so.
Is your Ruler a kindly old grandmother figure or a ruthless general? Is your Spymaster a secretive shadow
behind the throne or a jovial raconteur who always
seems to know who is doing what to whom?

For those you decide upon, give them a name and
a trait or two to bring them to life. While you should
determine the Ruler at the very least, if you can’t think
what to do for any of the other roles, leave them blank
and return to them during the game as the details of
your House become clearer to your group.

This is the current leader of the House and bears its
name as a surname. They hold a noble title such as
Baron/Baroness, Graf/Gräfin, Count/Countess, Margrave/Margravine, Marquis/Marchioness, Duke/Duchess,
or similar, and as the head of the House, they have a
vote in the Landsraad. Every action performed by the
House as a whole is done in the Ruler’s name (or in the
name of their superiors—the House Major above, or
the Emperor). The Ruler makes all the most important
decisions regarding the House and appoints others to
their roles.
If the Ruler is wed to someone, they share in the title and
may also take the role of Ruler if they desire. Whomever
inherited the position of Ruler by birth takes precedence
out of the two, however, and only one other person may
be Ruler (others may take the Consort role instead). There
may also be a struggle for power if the Ruler dies and two
powerful claimants contest the succession.

There are many areas of expertise that a Ruler needs to be
conversant with. This might be politics, CHOAM business,
finance, social etiquette, Imperial history, or a host of other
subjects. While a single political advisor is most common,
some Houses employ several Advisors in many different
areas to grant the Ruler the benefit of their experience.
Other Rulers are so well trained (or arrogant) they feel no
need for any assistance. The relationship an Advisor has
with the Ruler also varies. Some Advisors cover a weakness
in the Ruler’s education or abilities, other times they are
simply a trusted sounding board for the Ruler’s ideas. The
wealthiest Houses (especially the Imperial House) often
employ Bene Gesserit Reverend Mothers in this capacity
for their Truthsayer abilities.
Rights & Responsibilities: Each Advisor has a field of
knowledge they are expected to be an expert in. It is
up to them to keep up-to-date with any changes in that
field of knowledge or new discoveries. When the Ruler
asks for their understanding of a particular problem,
they had better have an answer.

An Envoy is a diplomat, responsible for the House’s foreign policy—that is, the peaceful interactions between
the House and their rivals, CHOAM representatives,
the Landsraad, or third parties like the Bene Gesserit or
the Spacing Guild. They oversee a staff of diplomats,
messengers, and ambassadors. It is their responsibility
to represent the interests of the House and its Ruler to
outsiders.
Rights & Responsibilities: An Envoy needs to have a
keen grasp on the state of the universe outside the confines of their House. Imperial politics can shift quickly
and the ability to predict those moods can be the key to
the House’s survival.

The Scholar is a representative of higher learning,
handling matters of science and academia on the Ruler’s
behalf and advising them on anything they are uninformed about. They are a form of expert Advisor, skilled
not in politics but in science and academic discipline.
They conduct research and gather information under the
Ruler’s patronage, with the repositories of knowledge
they cultivate advancing the House substantially with
new innovations or discoveries.
Rights & Responsibilities: Most Scholars are left to their
own devices to simply work on their studies, only being
called upon to report their advances or when their specialized knowledge is required. If the projects they are
working on are vital to the House, they may be under
immense pressure to deliver solutions quickly. This may
lead to dangerous mistakes if they are not careful.

The Spymaster maintains a network of spies, assassins, and informants at home and elsewhere. It is their
job to manage the clandestine espionage activities
of the House, in terms of intelligence-gathering and
counter-espionage. How underhanded they are about
this depends on the needs of the House, but most
Spymasters are devious in the extreme and extremely
well-informed. Many even keep secrets from their Ruler
to allow them to claim ‘plausible deniability’.
Some Spymasters focus more exclusively on protecting their House using assassins rather than spies and
informants. In this case one is called a ‘Master of Assassins’ rather than a Spymaster, although the term is not
derogatory in any way. Some Houses even employ both
a Spymaster and a Master of Assassins.
Rights & Responsibilities: It is up to the Spymaster to
protect the House from the threats lurking in the shadows. They should never be surprised by the actions of
their enemies, and always have a trap waiting for those
who move against their House.

Also known as a ‘Weaponsmaster’, the title of Swordmaster is an ancient and honorable one. They are an
expert in martial matters, serving as a military advisor,
tactician, and bodyguard to the Ruler. Most also take a
personal hand training the House troops and instructing
the Heir how to protect themselves. The personal safety
of the noble family is their direct responsibility, and one
they take very seriously.
Rights & Responsibilities: A Swordmaster is not only a
lethal fighter but a deadly tactician, often with experience honed on several battlefields. They need to be
aware of every possible strategy an enemy might use
against them and know how to ensure the noble family
can be kept safe, no matter what.

Where a Swordmaster is an expert in single combat, a
Warmaster is the House general. It is their job to lead
the House troops into battle, in whatever form that
might take. They are the highest-ranking member of the
House’s military, responsible for raising, maintaining,
and commanding the House’s troops in both peacetime
and during war. They may be a warrior themselves, or
more of a leader and strategist, but matters of war are
their province.
Rights & Responsibilities: Most Houses manage to get
along without open conflict, but when they do engage
one another, the battles are brutal and decisive. A Warmaster must be able to defend the House at a moment’s
notice and plan the logistics of moving troops with speed
and efficiency, even to other planets when required.

Houses (or one faction, such as Bene Gesserit, the
Imperial Court, etc.) and a host of minor Houses who
owe allegiance to one of these enemies.

DISLIKE
Any interaction with this House is at +1
Difficulty, due to distrust, always thinking
the worst.
RIVAL
The House actively seeks to bring the player
characters’ House down. They whisper about
them at court and spread lies and gossip
where they can. They avoid open conflict
unless they see an opportunity to make a
gain for themselves.
LOATHING
The House always has some a plan to
destroy the player characters’ House. However, they won’t risk their own resources
unless they can do serious damage.
KANLY
The House has dedicated all its resources to
seeing the player characters’ House not only
fall but be wiped out to the last person. They
take any risk if it might see an end to the
player characters’ House.

H o u se T h re at
As an enemy House is never far away, the gamemaster may spend 1 point of Threat to make any enemy
House appear in the adventure in some fashion, whether in person or merely as a rumor. Their appearance
might be part of a plan against the player characters, or they may simply be putting into play a plot of their
own. They may even just be taking advantage of a moment of weakness with the player character House.

THEFT
Something one House has acquired used
to belong to the other House. While the
possessor insists the item came to them
fairly, the other House insists nothing could
be further from the truth. The coveted
item might be an ancient artifact, piece
of advanced technology, a title, or even
something more abstract like the favor of
the Emperor. Both Houses have passed the
point where simply returning the item, if
possible, can solve their differences.

JEALOUSY
One House hates the other for no better
reason than they want to be them. They
idolize the other House to such a degree
it has turned to festering jealousy. They
believe the other House unworthy of the
amazing benefits it possesses, or they feel
that it has squandered all its gifts. If only
the jealous House had everything the other
has taken for granted, they would have
done so much better.

COMPETITION
The House is in competition for a resource or
place in the market and needs the other House
out of the way to take control. This resource
might be a particular holding, monopoly of a
business area, or even a planet or moon.
SLIGHT
Something the player character House did at
court caused them a loss of reputation or an
embarrassment. However, a simple apology isn’t
good enough to repair their damaged honor.
DEBT
They or the player character’s House has
reneged on a deal. This might be through
a misunderstanding, an unfortunate circumstance, or just because they could.
ANCIENT FEUD
The Houses have been enemies for thousands
of years. Something one or more of their ancestors did caused a rift that has only widened as
the centuries have passed. It is possible no one
remembers what the cause was, although both
Houses have their own version of the truth.
MORALITY
Something about the House sickens the other.
They might encourage loose morals or a brutal
regime but might just as easily be sickeningly
loyal to the Emperor, honorable to a fault, or
annoying in their religious dedication.
SERVITUDE
One of the Houses used to serve the other and
now owes no fealty. The master House might
want to return the ‘upstart’ to their ‘rightful
place’, or the vassal House might seek revenge
for being held back or badly treated.
FAMILY TIES
The Houses have intermarried throughout the
years, but one House has refused to continue
the tradition. The issue has divided each
House, for which they both blame each other.

Now that you know something about the House your
character serves, we can move on to creating the character. In this chapter we will walk you through the steps for
you and your group to create the agents of your House:
your player characters. This can be done in a couple of
ways: following a number of steps in order to produce
a character, or only partially creating a character before
play and allowing their nature to be revealed in play.
Characters in Dune: Adventures in the Imperium are
divided into a two main types: player characters and
non-player characters:

P l ay er C h a r a cters
This chapter deals primarily with player characters and
how to create and advance them. A player character is
any character directly controlled by one of the players,
rather than by the gamemaster. Player characters are
split into main characters and supporting characters.
Main characters are each player’s first and most important character. Each player has a single main character,
and these characters are collectively the focus of the
adventures you’ll play and the stories you’ll tell in the
Known Universe of Dune. They’re the protagonists of
the story and will normally be prominent members or
agents of a noble House (though not the leaders of the
House… yet). This chapter provides two different methods for creating main characters, but whichever method
is chosen, it is recommended that the players all use the
same method.
Supporting characters are player characters too, but
they’re less-developed than main characters and are
intended to be created quickly during the game asand-when needed to fulfil a particular role needed by
the group. These supporting characters represent other
officials and agents of the House and its allies, as well
as servants, vassals, and other subordinates such as
soldiers and spies. Supporting characters can be either
notable or minor:

and file subordinates and servants of the House;
quick to create and disposable for brief scenes where
their skills are necessary.

of rival Houses or other factions, similar to notable
supporting characters.

@ Smuggler: The dominance of CHOAM and the
Spacing Guild still allow for goods and people to be
moved in the gaps between the great powers of the
universe. You’re one of those people who work in
those gaps, skilled in the illicit-but-vital movement
away from the gaze of the powerful.

@ Fremen Warrior: You’re a hardened survivor, wellversed in water discipline and the other necessary
skills for living on Arrakis. You have little reason to
trust off-worlders, but circumstances may lead you to
stand beside them for a time.

@ House Officer: You serve the House, conveying
orders to the soldiers who fight the House’s battles
and leading them by your example.
This basic concept will be refined and changed
throughout character creation, whichever method you
select, but it provides inspiration for the choices you’ll
make later.

This method involves going through several steps,
making decisions at each step. You’ll choose an archetype for your character, assign points to your skills,
choose focuses and talents, select your drives and
create your drive statements, and end up with a fullyformed character at the end of the process.
This method allows a player to start with the kind of
character they want to play from the outset, and the
process allows for a considerable amount of customization of characters.

Creation in play is like planned creation, but you make
fewer decisions. You make only a few key choices, such
as an archetype, a couple of your skills, one of your
drives and one drive statement, and leave the rest blank
on your character sheet. The rest of the details will
be defined once play has begun—at particular points
during the game, you may choose to define one of
those elements, choosing a skill rating, a drive, a drive
statement, a focus, or a talent to add to your character.
This allows play to begin more quickly, and characters to
be developed during the game as they face challenges
and overcome obstacles. This is often handy for groups
who are less familiar with the system, as it allows them
to make choices as they become accustomed to the way
the game works rather than having to create a complete
character before they start playing.

B a sic R u les O v erv iew
Before you begin creating a character you should
know a little about the rules system, so that you
know what all the numbers mean. We’ll go into all
the details later in the book, but all those complications basically boil down to the following.
For the most part, when you want your character
to do or say something, you can just describe
what they are doing. However, when their actions
might prove a test of their skill or abilities, or
conflict with someone else, you need to make a
test to determine the outcome. The game would
get pretty boring if you always succeeded at
everything you did.
Making a test involves rolling twenty-sided dice (or
d20s). When you make a test, roll several of these
(from 2 to 5) and gain 1 success for each one that
rolls equal to or less than the target number. This
target number is calculated by adding up the skill
you are using (rated 4-8) and the drive that is driving the character’s actions (also rated 4-8).

If any of your d20s rolls a 1 it counts as 2 successes. The same applies if the result is equal to or
under your skill, provided you have an applicable
focus (a type of specialty) you can apply to the test.
This result is called a critical. Unfortunately, if any
die rolls a ‘20’ your character will suffer a problem
(such as a wound) called a complication that will
make further rolls harder.
The gamemaster will set a Difficulty rating from 0
to 5, and if you roll as many successes as the Difficulty your test is a success.
Several factors can help you achieve more successes.
Momentum points can be spent to roll more d20s,
and can be replenished by doing especially well on
skill tests. Your character’s traits might help reduce
the Difficulty, and you can use the limited Determination points you have to re-roll dice or automatically gain successes. However, the gamemaster has
a pool of Threat points they can use to enhance their
non-player characters and make the situation more
dangerous for the player characters.

P ers o n a l T r a its
A character has two traits, which are essential descriptions of the character. These traits provide a context
for a character’s actions, influencing the difficulty of the
tasks they attempt, and they help you and the gamemaster determine what is possible or impossible for the
character to attempt. In this way, they are no different
than the traits the gamemaster describes when they set
a new scene, described in Chapter 5: Core Rules.
A character’s first trait is normally their title, status, or
role in society. A character’s place in society shapes how
they move through society, and influences what they
can and cannot do. A character’s first trait should always
mention the House to which the character belongs or
serves. Examples include ‘Duke of House Atreides’,
‘House Atreides’ Master of Assassins’, or ‘Consort to
Duke Leto Atreides’.
A character’s second trait is more personal, taking the
form of the character’s reputation such as ‘Just and
Wise’ or ‘Callous and Ruthless’. It is how the character
is perceived by others, and thus influences how others
approach and regard them, for better or worse.
These two traits paint a very basic picture of who the
character is and how they fit into the Known Universe.
Think of these as being the way you’d describe the character to a person out of game. They are the foremost
details about who the character is.
Occasionally, a character may have a third trait; this might
reflect a secondary affiliation or loyalty, which may pull
the character in a different direction or denote another
source of connections and status, such as ‘Suk Doctor’, or
‘Mentat Conditioning’, or ‘Bene Gesserit Sister’.

Of course, characters are more than just their position
and their drives. Accomplishments come from action,
and action requires capability. A character’s training and
expertise are necessary parts of what allows them to
influence the world around them.
Each character has a rating in each of five skills, which
are described below. Skills contribute to a character’s
tests, and they define what a character is doing when
they act. Each skill is rated from 4 to 8, and the more
proficient a character is, the higher the skill is rated.
BATTLE
Battle describes a character’s skill at arms, their awareness of danger, their understanding of tactics and strategy, and their knowledge of the tools, techniques, and
history of combat.

@ Use Battle when you fight, when you seek to avoid
danger, when you plan a battle, and when you try
to recall some fact about the methods or history of
conflict.

COMMUNICATE
Communicate describes a character’s ability to skillfully
engage in conversations, discussions, and debates. It
encompasses the use of implication, innuendo, subtext,
and context to convey or hide intent and to read those
methods when others use them.

DISCIPLINE
Discipline describes a character’s ability to influence and
control their own mind and body (overruling instincts
and autonomic functions) as well as their ability to exert
direct, overt influence over others through presence,
force of will, and the power of authority. It also allows a
character to focus and concentrate on a complex task,
such as picking a lock.

@ Use Discipline when attempting to resist attempts

to subvert body or mind, such as poisons, drugs, or
mental influence, as well as to suppress instincts and
reflexes when subjected to extreme pain or hardship,
or to compel or threaten others through presence
and authority alone.

MOVE
Move describes a character’s mobility, their ability to
maneuver around an environment quickly or carefully,
and their ability to overcome physical obstacles.

@ Use Move to walk, run, jump, climb, swim, or otherwise
maneuver in situations where speed, precision, stealth,
or care are necessary, or when you need to exert
physical force in ways other than fighting.

SKILL
RATING

You are well-trained, or you have basic
training and some experience.

You’re highly capable and experienced.

You are a master of that skill, renowned
for your expertise.

FOCUSES

A character’s skills are broad, and each character has
a selection of focuses which allow you to demonstrate
their specialties and the kinds of advanced expertise that
comes with specialized training or hard-won experience.
Focuses increase a character’s chances of scoring a critical success on tests using that skill, in circumstances where
that focus applies. There is no singular, fixed list of focuses.
Focuses can be chosen freely during character creation, for
there are innumerable areas of expertise and specializations.
In play, while you receive focuses for particular skills,
they may be used on any skill test where they might
reasonably be appropriate: the skill a focus is listed
alongside is simply the skill most likely to use that focus.
Where a focus requires you to specify something in particular (all marked with a *) you may only apply your focus
to that particular choice. But you may take the focus
multiple times to have a collection of different specialties
(such as picking Music twice to play two instruments).

EXAMPLE BATTLE FOCUSES
@ Assassination (attempting to get close to attack a target)
@ Atomics (use and understanding of atomic weapons
see p.23 and p.200)
@ Dirty Fighting (brawling and fighting with
improvised weapons)
@ Dueling (duel etiquette and technique)
@ Evasive Action (dodging and avoiding blows)
@ Lasgun (use of laser weapons see p.23 and p.200)
@ Long Blades (use of swords)
@ Pistols (Use of firearms and pneumatic weapons,
such as maula pistols and dartguns).
@ Rifle (Use of non-lasgun rifle weapons).
@ Shield fighting (using shields and bypassing them)
@ Short Blades (use of knives)
@ Sneak Attacks (ambush attacks)
@ Strategy (battlefield conflict)
@ Tactics (small scale unit conflict)
@ Unarmed Combat (fighting without a weapon)
EXAMPLE COMMUNICATE FOCUSES
@ Acting (pretending to be something you are not)
@ Bartering (reducing the cost of a good or service)
@ Charm (befriending others and appearing trustworthy)
@ Deceit (lying and plotting)
@ Diplomacy (negotiating a deal)
@ Disguise (appearing to be something you are not)
@ Empathy (understanding the emotional responses of
others)
@ Gossip (knowing commonly discussed rumors in your
local area)
@ Innuendo (implying something without saying it, often
to communicate a plot to only a few people in earshot)
@ Inspiration (using a spark or artistic ability to create
something)
@ Interrogation (eliciting information from a target,
subtly or with threats)
@ Intimidation (forcing another to back down)
@ Linguistics (languages and the study of the nature of
language)
@ Listening (overhearing quiet sounds and hidden
conversations)
@ Music* (specify a particular instrument: harp, baliset,
drum, etc)
@ Neurolinguistics (planting an idea in someone
without their knowledge)
@ Persuasion (getting someone to agree to a particular
action)
@ Secret Language* (specify which faction’s secret
language you know)
@ Teaching (the ability to explain things quickly and simply)
EXAMPLE DISCIPLINE FOCUSES
@ Command (giving orders and getting them followed)
@ Composure (staying calm in a stressful situation)
@ Espionage (spycraft, intelligence gathering, following
a target)
@ Infiltration (gaining access to an area or faction)

gain intelligence)
@ Precision (performing a complex task dexterously)
@ Resolve (resisting environmental danger)
@ Self-Control (remaining in control of your feelings or
actions)
@ Survival* (specific to an environment: Desert, Jungle,
Arctic, Urban, etc.)
EXAMPLE MOVE FOCUSES
@ Acrobatics (tumbling and swinging)
@ Body Control (lowering heart rate, slowing
breathing, etc.)
@ Climb (climbing surfaces)
@ Dance (knowing how to dance and performing as a
dancer)
@ Distance Running (running a marathon)
@ Drive (operating a ground vehicle)
@ Escaping (freeing yourself of bonds)
@ Grace (moving with poise and style)
@ Pilot* (specific type of craft)
@ Stealth (moving without being seen)
@ Swift (moving quickly)
@ Swim (swimming in any environment)
@ Unobtrusive (staying hidden when in plain sight)
@ Worm Rider (calling and riding a worm - Fremen only)
EXAMPLE UNDERSTAND FOCUSES
@ Advanced Technology (making repairs and crafting
machines)
@ Botany (study of plants)
@ CHOAM Bureaucracy (understanding CHOAM legal
systems and operations)
@ Cultural Studies (understanding non-Imperium cultures)
@ Danger Sense (knowing when a situation feels wrong)

@ Etiquette (knowing the rules of good society)
@ Faction Lore* (specify Bene Gesserit, Spacing Guild,
Tleilaxu, etc.)

D ri v es
A character’s inner life motivates and defines their
actions. A character’s drives, thus, shape the things
they do, and how successful they are at those things. A
character is more likely to succeed when they believe
strongly in something, and less likely when they are
indifferent. But those strong drives can also lead a
character into trouble or lead them to take ill-advised
actions.
Each character has a rating in each of five drives, which
are described below. Drives are added to a character’s
skills to derive the target number when they attempt
a test. But they also define why a character is taking
action, and what drives them to succeed. A character’s
most important drive is rated 8. The second-most is
rated at 7, then the rest at 6, 5, and 4.
Which drive applies to a test is usually defined by which
drive statement applies to the action. But sometimes
players may wish to speed up play by directly selecting the right drive and looking to see if its statement
applies.
DUTY
Duty is the pressure upon a character to find their place
in society and fulfill their allotted role, but also the
weight of obligations and personal responsibilities.

@ Use Duty when it is your character’s responsibility to

FAITH
Faith is the moral expectation of religion and a character’s spiritual needs. It shows their dedication to a higher
power and the guiding hand of destiny. But a high
Faith drive does not always mean a religious or spiritual
dedication, as some place their faith in their faction or
friends as much as the will of God.

to take action, whether from their religion or personal
values. This might also be used to rely on luck or a
last-minute plan for an action to succeed.

JUSTICE
Justice is a drive toward balance and fairness, but also
the will to redress injustices. It often serves the law and
the common good, but it can just as easily uphold bad
laws and be used as an excuse for revenge.

@ Use Justice when doing the action is simply the right

@ Use Power when doing the action serves the

character’s agenda in some way, either directly or
indirectly. Self-serving actions need not always take
from others and might even require sacrifice (for a
greater reward), but they are never entirely altruistic.

TRUTH
Truth is the desire for knowledge and the need to
uncover or define that which is true. It is dedicated to
revealing the right answers, even if they are uncomfortable or even dangerous.

@ Use Truth when the character’s curiosity has got the
better of them, or when they absolutely must know
the answer to enhance their own knowledge and
understanding. It is also useful when uncovering
secrets.

Players often try and pick their highest drive as often
as possible. This is perfectly fine, as their character will
naturally try to play to their strength. But the gamemaster may decide this makes them predictable and grant
their enemies an appropriate bonus. Sometimes the
gamemaster may also rule that certain situations insist
on certain drives, or even preclude them.
A drive being important (and thus having a high rating)
can be either positive or negative: a character with a
Truth rating of 8 may be scrupulously honest, or they
may seek to impose their own version of the truth upon
others or control what others know.

DRIVE
RATING

DRIVE STATEMENTS

For each drive with a rating of 6 or higher, you define a
single statement. This is a short sentence explaining what
the character feels about that drive. Characters don’t have
drive statements for their lower-rated drives, because they
don’t feel strongly enough about those things.

Some example drive statements are below, for each drive:
EXAMPLE DUTY STATEMENTS
@ “People are the true strength of a Great House.”
@ “I serve at the pleasure of the House.”
@ “Humans live best when each has their place.”
@ “Acceptance of place is the death of freedom.”
@ “Those above offer duty to those below.“
@ “I know my responsibilities.“
@ “Duty is a sharp blade.“
@ “What must be done, must be done.“
EXAMPLE FAITH STATEMENTS
@ “My faith gives me certainty where others might
doubt.”
@ “Faith is merely obedience to the myths of the past.”
@ “God will deliver me to whatever fate is mine.”
@ “Machines are things of corruption.“
@ “I trust my heart, not my head.“
@ “Our trials are how God tests us.“
@ “Those who doubt my faith will be proved
wrong.“
@ “God has forgotten us for we are not worthy.“
EXAMPLE JUSTICE STATEMENTS
@ “I must shield those in my care.”
@ “I will get revenge on those who have wronged me.”
@ “I have no patience for those who complain that
life is unfair.”

@ “What we do will return to us.“
@ “Life isn’t fair.“
@ “Justice is what you can get away with.“
@ “Justice is only for the wealthy.“
@ “Everyone should be treated equally.“
EXAMPLE POWER STATEMENTS
@ “Power must be used wisely and cleverly.”
@ “The power to destroy a thing is the absolute
control over it.”
@ “All power invites challenge.”
@ “Those who have true power need seldom wield it.”
@ “Power attracts those who are corruptible.”
@ “Power comes at a knife’s edge.“
@ “I will have what is owed to me.“
@ “Strength is nothing without grace.“
EXAMPLE TRUTH STATEMENTS
@ “Respect for the truth comes close to being the
basis for all morality.”
@ “I decide what is true.”
@ “I seek to uncover the many secrets of the
universe.”
@ “If I do not know it, it is irrelevant.”
@ “The purpose of argument is to change the nature
of truth.”
@ “What one wishes were true is seldom so.”
@ “You will know me by my deeds.“
@ “Truth is the first casualty of war.“

If a character wishes to use a drive which has an accompanying drive statement, then their action must align
with the statement. If a character attempts to use a drive
with a statement that clashes with the action they’re
attempting, then they may suffer complications or be
required to give up that drive statement, as described in
Chapter 5: Core Rules.

@ Justice ambitions are driven by a sense of fairness or
balance, or a desire to right wrongs and injustices…
including personal grudges and vendettas.

@ Truth ambitions often include uncovering knowledge

As a result, each player character has an ambition which
guides their long-term actions. A character who takes steps
to achieve their ambitions becomes more capable, able to
influence others or impose their wills more effectively.

A character’s ambition is a short phrase describing
their ultimate goal or desire, and it is defined by their
highest-rated drive at the time of character creation.
Your gamemaster will work with you to define one for
your character.

A character’s ambition can change over time. If a character’s highest-rated drive changes, then you may change
the character’s ambition as well. You don’t have to make
this change if you don’t want to—a person’s goals may
remain the same even as their worldview shifts—but if
the drive which the ambition was based on ever drops
to less than 6 (and thus loses its statement), you must
change the ambition.

@ Duty ambitions are about service to a cause or
group, discovering or understanding one’s place

Character
C r e at i o n
S u m m a ry
STEP ONE: CONCEPT
Consider your character idea.
Select a faction template if applicable and
record its trait if you do.
STEP TWO: ARCHETYPE
Choose or adapt an archetype from the list.
Record its trait.
STEP THREE: SKILLS
Assign a rating to each skill:
@ The primary skill listed for your archetype is
rated at 6.
@ The secondary skill listed for your archetype
is rated at 5.
@ The other three skills are rated at 4.
@ Add 5 more points among your skills, to a
maximum of 8.
STEP FOUR: FOCUSES
Choose four focuses and assign them to skills
(listing on p.103). At least one should be
assigned to your primary skill. Your archetype
will offer suggestions you may take if you wish.
STEP FIVE: TALENTS
Choose three talents. Each archetype suggests
one talent.
Faction characters must pick all mandatory
talents but otherwise have a free choice for any
remaining picks.
STEP SIX: DRIVES AND DRIVE STATEMENTS
Rank the five drives in order of importance,
assigning the ratings 8, 7, 6, 5, and 4 among
them, with 8 being the most important.
Assign a drive statement to the three highest
drives. Some suggestions can be found on
p.106.

The first step in creating a player character is to decide
what general sort of character to create. You may want to
look through the archetypes described later in this chapter, from one of the concepts mentioned in the introduction, or something else inspired by the universe of Dune.
It’s helpful to keep this concept relatively vague at this
stage, as it gives you room to change and adapt.
Once you have a concept that you’re happy with, move
on to the next step.

F a cti o n C h a r a cters
a n d T empl ates
It’s assumed that the majority of player characters will
be ordinary people, working for the group’s House
and capable enough to have achieved some degree of
standing and importance, but otherwise typical of the
people who inhabit the Imperium.
But that won’t be the case for all player characters. Some
of the most iconic characters in Dune are part of a faction
outside the system of noble Houses. You may wish to play
a Sister of the Bene Gesserit, a Mentat, an agent of the
Spacing Guild, a Suk doctor, or one of the desert-dwelling
Fremen of Arrakis. All of these characters will be loyal to
the noble House the player characters serve, but they have
other loyalties and ties that cannot be ignored. They also
possess some of the most advanced training and abilities
in the Imperium, so care must be taken to ensure they
don’t overshadow the other player characters.
Players can pick one of these faction options to add
to their concept, and doing so doesn’t alter character
creation very much. But as the training of such characters is very specific, some of the players' choices will
be limited. The benefit is that it grants access to further
powerful abilities and connections. Faction characters
shouldn’t be chosen lightly or on a whim, and their
faction should be a core part of the concept from the
outset. Until they prove themselves, their absolute loyalty to the House will often be questioned.

STEP SEVEN: ASSETS
Your character begins play with three assets,
one of which must be tangible.
STEP EIGHT: FINISHING TOUCHES
@ Trait – Choose a trait based on your
character’s reputation or personality.
@ Ambition – Decide on a goal for your
character, related to their highest drive.
@ Personal Details – Decide on a name,
personality, appearance, and relationships.

If you do opt to play a faction character, the following
additional rules apply. These are summarized in a template for each faction option below.
1. The character has an additional bonus trait, reflecting their other affiliation. This is listed on the faction
template. For example, ‘Bene Gesserit Sister’, or
‘Mentat’, or ‘Fremen’, etc.
2. The character then selects their archetype as normal.
Some may be especially suitable, though, and each
template offers some suggestions. But the player is
still free to choose any archetype.
3. Each faction template has at least one ‘mandatory
talent’. This talent can be selected in place of any
other talent the player might pick, but it must be
taken by the end of character creation. It represents
essential training the faction character must complete
to gain further abilities.
It should also be noted that no character can take more
than a single faction template for their character. There
are no Face Dancer/Mentats or Bene Gesserit/Guild
Agents.
Example: Claire and her group are creating characters who will all be agents of House Molay. Claire
likes the idea of playing a Bene Gesserit Sister but
doesn’t want to be too tied to the Sisterhood. So,
she decides to play a noblewoman who was trained
by the Sisterhood as a girl. Her character, Kara, will
be a deadly fighter, but also one of the potential
heirs to House Molay.
Now that she has a concept, Claire needs to choose
a professional trait for Kara, and so picks ‘Noble’.
While Kara is a noblewoman, her Bene Gesserit training means she needs to choose the faction template
for Bene Gesserit. Claire records the bonus trait
‘Bene Gesserit’ and notes that she will have to pick
the talent ‘Prana-bindu Conditioning’ at some point.

@ Additional Trait: Bene Gesserit
@ Suggested Archetypes: Analyst,

@ Additional Trait: Fremen
@ Suggested Archetypes: Athlete,
Duelist, Infiltrator, Protector,
Scout, Sergeant, Warrior
@ Mandatory Talents: At
least one of the following:
Dedication, Driven, Masterat-arms, Rapid Recovery,
Resilience (Battle), Subtle
Step, The Reason I
Fight, any of which
may be taken in place
of any other talent
choice.

You do not withhold information or computation
lines from a Mentat.
- Thufir Hawat
Adepts of the Mentat school are considered an
essential asset to any House. While these ‘human
computers’ are simply a convenient way to store
data, most are trusted advisors at the highest
levels of the Landsraad. Some Houses employ
several Mentats, if only to ‘backup data’.

@ Additional Trait: Mentat
@ Suggested Archetypes: Analyst, Empath,

Envoy, Herald, Scholar, Spy, Steward, Strategist, Tactician
@ Mandatory Talents: At least one of the following: Calculated Prediction, Mentat
Discipline, Mind Palace, Twisted
Mentat, Verify, any of which may
be taken in place of any other
talent choice.

While the elusive Navigators and Steersmen
are never seen outside the Guild (and therefore
cannot be player characters), the faction has
agents across the universe. Guild agents are a
point of contact for noble Houses wishing to travel
or trade, and some are assigned to a noble House
to maintain good relations and offer a priority
service. They are also commonly assigned to any
House that hosts a Guild facility (such as a bank)
on their lands. However, a Guild agent is often
more than just a point of contact. They also make
excellent financial advisors, and while they cannot
pilot a foldspace vessel, they are often experienced space travelers.

@ Additional Trait: Guild Agent
@ Suggested Archetypes: Analyst, Courtier,

@ Additional Trait: Suk Doctor
@ Suggested Archetypes: Analyst, Commander,
Courtier, Herald, Scholar, Steward

The archetypes are created to offer every combination of primary and secondary skill. If you already
have a combination in mind for your concept, or
want to add a different theme to a particular combination, the following table will help you find it.
Remember that some combinations might lend
themselves to other styles of archetypes. While
we have listed the combination of Communicate/
Understand as a Courtier, they might just as easily
apply to an Entertainer or Merchant instead.

@ Trait: An archetype provides a single trait,

representing the character’s role or status, which will
be the archetype’s name. You may change or expand
this if you wish, to something unique and befitting
your concept, but the trait provided by your chosen
archetype should serve as the basis for whatever you
create.

@ Skills: One skill is marked as primary, and one is

marked as secondary. These skills will be increased in
the next step.

@ Focuses: The character receives two focuses for their
primary or secondary skill. Suggestions for these
are provided, but you may choose your own if you
desire.

The archetypes also provide suggestions and ideas for
what characters of that type will likely spend time doing
and what they might believe. None of these suggestions are mandatory, but they can help when it comes to
choosing the character’s drives and ambitions later.
Example: Claire looks through the suggested
archetypes for a Bene Gesserit but decides to pick
Commander as Kara’s archetype instead. She likes
the idea of Kara as a social character with fighting
skills.

PRIMARY
SKILL

SECONDARY
SKILL

Discipline

Move

Discipline

Battle

Battle

Move

Move

Discipline

Discipline

Move

Move

Discipline

Battle

Discipline

Move

Battle

Move

Battle

Move

Discipline

Battle

Battle

Battle

Discipline

These archetypes all follow the code of war in some form. Some may consider martial skills to be a pathway to
excellence; others might never use a weapon, focusing their mind on strategy and tactics instead. But all know
what it is to fight and are lethal in one way or another.

Mastery of the blade is a valuable skill in the Imperium,
and those who are especially capable are highly soughtafter by the rulers of noble Houses, serving as bodyguards, champions, favored gladiators, and even tutors,
teaching their skills to others in the House. Because
of the prevalence of master duelists as instructors to
the young scions of a House, many young nobles find
themselves becoming duelists in their own right, even if
only for a short while before they take on other courtly
duties.

@ Trait: Duelist
@ Primary Skill: Battle
@ Secondary Skill: Move
@ Focuses: Dueling, Short Blades
@ Talents: The Slow Blade
@ Drives: Duelists—particularly those who work as

@ Trait: Sergeant
@ Primary Skill: Battle
@ Secondary Skill: Communicate
@ Focuses: Long Blades, Strategy
@ Talents: Master-at-Arms
@ Drives: Sergeants commonly feel a strong bond of

loyalty to their warriors, one which is reciprocated
and manifests in a powerful sense of Duty. Others
are driven by a strong sense of right and wrong, and
a strong drive in Justice.

Where a strategist orchestrates the grand plan of battle,
tacticians direct the fighting on a smaller scale. A mercenary company, or a House regiment, may have a handful
of tactical experts, who drill and train the rank and file
and officers alike to hone their responses to particular
situations. When pressed into battle themselves, they’re
cunning, resourceful combatants, often able to see
opportunities that less-astute fighters might miss.

@ Trait: Tactician
@ Primary Skill: Battle
@ Secondary Skill: Understand
@ Focuses: Combat Awareness, Tactics
@ Talents: Decisive Action
@ Drives: Tacticians are well-versed in the proper and
effective use of force, and thus understand Power
extremely well. Many also see their causes as right
and proper, and the execution of their duties as a
matter of Justice.

Might at arms is a necessary part of the politics of the
Imperium. While restrained by the traditions and rules
of kanly, each House maintains a standing army for
defending its people and territory, for putting down
rebellions and insurrections from within, and for waging
wars against enemies. Mercenary companies hire out
their services to any able to pay, often bolstering House
forces. Warriors hail from such armed forces, and the
most capable amongst them tend to gain prominence
and status, often joining elite units or the personal
guard of important persons outside the House.

@ Trait: Warrior
@ Primary Skill: Battle
@ Secondary Skill: Discipline
@ Focuses: Dirty Fighting, Long Blade
@ Talents: To Fight Someone Is to Know Them
@ Drives: Warriors often put their trust in their own

prowess and capabilities, and thus prioritize Power.
Others tend to emphasize the need to use their skills
for a good reason, focusing on Justice.

Commanders are senior leaders of military forces; their
role is to decide upon a plan of action and give orders
to their subordinates. Some serve as commanding officers over detachments of troops, or leaders of mercenary
companies, while others are freelance strategists hired
to help guide a standing army. Many Houses often
employ a Warmaster as a dedicated commander for
their troops.

@ Trait: Commander
@ Primary Skill: Communicate
@ Secondary Skill: Battle
@ Focuses: Inspiration, Leadership
@ Talents: Specialist (Warfare Assets)
@ Drives: Many Commanders are driven by a sense

Representatives of their employers in negotiations and
diplomacy, envoys are charged with traveling from place
to place, conveying the will and words of their masters
wherever it is required. By necessity, envoys are welltraveled and used to long journeys and rough conditions, and they need to be quick-witted and quick on
their feet to survive the perils of their vocation.

@ Trait: Envoy
@ Primary Skill: Communicate
@ Secondary Skill: Move
@ Focuses: Diplomacy, Persuasion
@ Talents: Binding Promise
@ Drives: A trusted Envoy will often have a strong

sense of Duty, which may shape why they choose to
serve in that capacity. Other envoys have a strong
sense of Justice and a reputation for fairness which
helps their work.

of Duty and loyalty to their superiors and the chain
of command, while others are ambitious, seeking
Power and opportunities to elevate themselves.

Courtiers are the assorted attendants, advisors, clerks,
agents, and others with positions at court, or access to
the rulers of the House. Not all who have a position at
court will be of this archetype—those who attend court
because of their knowledge or prowess in other fields,
such as soldiers, may fit other archetypes better. Trusted
courtiers are skilled speakers and listeners, for access
and knowledge are the advantages of the courtier, and
they are often at the forefront of palace intrigues.

@ Trait: Courtier
@ Primary Skill: Communicate
@ Secondary Skill: Understand
@ Focuses: Charm, Musical Instrument
@ Talents: Subtle Words
@ Drives: Courtiers tend to be ambitious, seeking the

influence and Power that their positions at court can
provide, but those courtiers who are rewarded with
their masters’ trust are those who are driven by a
sense of Duty and loyalty.

The running of a House is a complex, burdensome
matter, and those who rule over each House typically
delegate many of those tasks and responsibilities to
trusted subordinates. These stewards manage the
day-to-day operations of the House, overseeing some
aspect of it in their master’s name. These individuals
are capable, decisive, and good at organizing people,
because anything less would be unacceptable. A House
will have numerous stewards, with more in Houses
with larger holdings, and many are given considerable
autonomy to take whatever actions they need to in
order to keep things running smoothly.

@ Trait: Steward
@ Primary Skill: Communicate
@ Secondary Skill: Discipline
@ Focuses: Leadership, Negotiation
@ Talents: Stirring Rhetoric
@ Drives: Stewards are often chosen from amongst

those who prioritize Duty above all else, so long as
their dutiful nature is accompanied by sufficient competence. Many stewards are also highly ambitious
individuals, seeking to gain status, recognition, and
ultimately, Power from their work.

These archetypes seek to master an internal stillness where they function with perfect grace and clarity. They are
exceptionally focused and dedicated, having honed their skills through practice and intense training.

Analysts are often in the employ of noble Houses to
study the details and trends of business, politics, and
warfare—and the points at which those three things
blur into one another—and the most skilled are highlyprized. Mentats are especially valuable as analysts, due
to their ability to process vast amounts of information
quickly and dispassionately.

@ Trait: Analyst
@ Primary Skill: Discipline
@ Secondary Skill: Understand
@ Focuses: Attention to Detail, Composure
@ Talents: Intense Study
@ Drives: Many Analysts are driven by a strong drive to
uncover or reveal the Truth, while those trusted with
the secrets of their employers are ones who believe
strongly in Duty.

@ Trait: Herald
@ Primary Skill: Discipline
@ Secondary Skill: Communicate
@ Focuses: Command, Composure
@ Talents: Rigorous Control
@ Drives: A Herald will often have Faith in a greater

plan or purpose for their House, and Duty is often a
common drive for those appointed to such important roles.

Skilled at finding their way into secure places, infiltrators
are an important part of the interplay between Houses
and the other great organizations of the Imperium:
politics would be drastically different were it not for the
subterfuge and espionage that occurs on a daily basis.
Infiltrators require boundless resolve and focus, maintaining a clear sense of their goals and their loyalties as
they undertake their work.

@ Trait: Infiltrator
@ Primary Skill: Discipline
@ Secondary Skill: Move
@ Focuses: Infiltration, Precision
@ Talents: Subtle Step
@ Drives: Infiltrators often discover their vocation

through a powerful sense of curiosity and a need to
discover the Truth, while others revel in the Power
they can claim through the secrets they find.

Security is a must for anyone of wealth and status, and
protectors are those most capable of providing that.
Any House will contain a cadre of trained bodyguards
and security personnel to secure the House’s grounds
and protect its members and senior agents. These
are distinct from ordinary House troops, as they practice greater restraint and self-awareness, and have an
unyielding resolve; they will continue to protect their
charges after most soldiers have lost their nerve, and
they prioritize the safety of their charges above glory in
battle.

@ Trait: Protector
@ Primary Skill: Discipline
@ Secondary Skill: Battle
@ Focuses: Resolve, Self-Control
@ Talents: Bolster
@ Drives: Protectors are commonly chosen because of

a strong sense of Duty; many are instead driven by a
powerful belief in Justice.

These archetypes are physical creatures who hate to stay in one place. They like to apply their skills to the real world.
They are hard to keep up with, and almost impossible to catch.

@ Trait: Athlete
@ Primary Skill: Move
@ Secondary Skill: Discipline
@ Focuses: Grace, Stamina
@ Talents: Nimble
@ Drives: Athletes are often driven by a sense of pride
in their personal accomplishments and a drive for
greater Power over their bodies and their lives.
Others are driven by Faith in a higher power, in
themselves, or in colleagues and teammates.

Sending messages and packages quickly and securely is
a vital part of the business of the Houses, and they rely
heavily upon those who can move a communiqué or
valuable item reliably to its destination. Trusted couriers
are highly prized and can become targets if their cargo
is sufficiently valuable. Messengers often learn unusual
ways of communicating messages, secret languages,
and techniques for sending multiple messages or hiding
one message within others, to ensure that only specific
people receive certain information.

@ Trait: Messenger
@ Primary Skill: Move
@ Secondary Skill: Communicate
@ Focuses: Pilot, Unobtrusive
@ Talents: Masterful Innuendo
@ Drives: Messengers are entrusted with their employ-

er’s secrets, and that gives them influence they can
turn into Power. Others, confronted with the dangers
of their profession, put their Faith in a higher power
to see them through each job.

Working alongside military units and exploratory groups,
scouts take on the perilous task of venturing ahead of their
comrades to discover what lays ahead. Scouts need to be
able to move quickly through unknown and potentially
hostile territory undetected, gather information efficiently,
and return to tell the tale. This is, understandably, a dangerous and difficult task, and good scouts are valuable.

@ Trait: Scout
@ Primary Skill: Move
@ Secondary Skill: Understand
@ Focuses: Endurance, Stealth
@ Talents: Putting Theory into Practice
@ Drives: The dangerous vocation of a Scout is one

undertaken by those driven by Duty, as few would
willingly undertake their missions without a good
reason. Others see themselves as explorers, seeking
to discover new Truths about the universe as they
venture into the unknown.

@ Trait: Smuggler
@ Primary Skill: Move
@ Secondary Skill: Battle
@ Focuses: Pilot, Unobtrusive
@ Talents: Subtle Step
@ Drives: Smugglers are selfish by nature, as are many

who flaunt the law to achieve their goals. Most tend
to seek wealth and Power from their work. Others
take a stance driven by a sense of Justice, often trying
to gain the means to avenge whatever misdeeds
forced them into the smuggling life to begin with.

These archetypes use their wits and powers of observation to understand the world around them. They like to use
their minds but often employ their skills outward rather than inward, seeking knowledge as a way to comprehend
what surrounds them.

The ability to detect truth and falsehood when others
speak is a valuable and powerful one, and one highly
sought-after. Only the Reverend Mothers of the Bene
Gesserit have mastered full truthsense. But some individuals are simply born with the knack to understand the
motives of others. These gifted individuals can always
find employ if they are willing to reveal their ability.

@ Trait: Empath
@ Primary Skill: Understand
@ Secondary Skill: Communicate
@ Focuses: Body Language, Social Awareness
@ Talents: Passive Scrutiny
@ Drives: It may seem obvious, but many Empaths

have strong opinions on matters of Truth and perception. Others are ambitious, seeing the potential
in their ability and the Power they could accrue from
using it.

@ Trait: Scholar
@ Primary Skill: Understand
@ Secondary Skill: Discipline
@ Focuses: Data Analysis, Deductive Reasoning
@ Talents: Intense Study
@ Drives: Scholars are frequently driven to pursue their
studies because of a deep interest in uncovering the
Truth. Others see the value and potential Power to
be found within knowledge.

Espionage is an integral part of the politics between the
Houses, the Landsraad, the Spacing Guild, CHOAM, and
the other factions in the Imperium, and spies are the ones
who perform this work. Some spies involve themselves
directly and personally in this work, building elaborate
aliases that allow them to move undetected across the
Imperium to uncover the secrets their masters need, but
this is a dangerous way to do things. Others cultivate networks of informants, gathering information from far and
wide… but this has the potential to see misinformation
spread if those informants are compromised.

@ Trait: Spy
@ Primary Skill: Understand
@ Secondary Skill: Move
@ Focuses: Deductive Reasoning, Kanly
@ Talents: Hidden Motives
@ Drives: Spies are often driven by a need to know, or

control what is seen as, the Truth. Others are instead
determined to serve their masters well, driven by a
sense of Duty.

Warfare, even within the rules of kanly, is a complex and
nuanced affair. Strategists are employed to sift through
reams of intelligence on the enemy, and compose the
orders of battle, supply chains, deployment of forces,
and the overall strategy of war. They are proficient in the
science of mass warfare, and the history and traditions
of Kanly. Some of the greatest strategists in history have
been Mentats, applying their computational thought to
the vagaries and variables of war.

@ Trait: Strategist
@ Primary Skill: Understand
@ Secondary Skill: Battle
@ Focuses: Kanly, Strategy
@ Talents: Master-at-Arms
@ Drives: Strategists are experts in the manipulation

Each character in Dune: Adventures in the Imperium
has five skills, as described in the previous chapter:
Battle, Communicate, Discipline, Move, and Understand. These cover the character’s broad aptitudes
and capabilities, forming a major part of skill tests the
character attempts during play.
All player characters have each skill rated between 4 and 8.
At this stage in character creation, you will have the following skill ratings:

@ The primary skill listed for your archetype is rated at 6
@ The secondary skill listed for your archetype is rated at 5.
@ The other three skills are rated at 4.
Once you’ve done this, you may increase any skills
you wish; you have five points which you may distribute as you see fit between your skills. No skill may be
increased above 8 in this way.
Example: Kara’s primary skill is Communicate, so that
starts at 6. Her secondary skill is Battle, which therefore
starts at 5. Claire decides to put an extra point in each
of her other skills to bring them all up to 5, leaving her
with 2 left. While she’d like a better Communicate, she
decides to balance things out with her combat skills
and adds the final 2 points to Battle and Move. This
gives her Battle 6, Communicate 6, Discipline 5, Move
6, Understand 5.

A starting player character has four focuses, representing
areas of expertise and specialization beyond their broad
skills. These focuses will each be associated with a single
skill, which represents the skill which will use that focus
most often. But any focus can be used with any skill if it
applies appropriately to the action in question. However,
a focus of Gladiatorial Dueling is going to be used with
Battle more often than with Understand, for example.
Your chosen archetype will provide two focuses, one
of which will usually be associated with the archetype’s
primary skill, and the other of which will usually be associated with the archetype’s secondary skill. You should pick
a focus for your primary skill and for your secondary skill
(even from outside your archetype). But you may also pick
either or both offered by your archetype regardless of skill.
Once you’ve chosen these, you may choose two other
focuses, which may be associated with any skills you want.
Example: Claire likes both of the focuses listed for
Commander (Inspiration and Leadership), and picks
Inspiration for her Communicate focus. However, she
wants something more direct for her Battle focus and
so instead picks Short Blades (representing her training
among the House Molay assassins). For her third pick
she wants something that will help in House negotiations and takes Diplomacy as a Communicate focus. For
her final pick she decides the Bene Gesserit taught her
how to move unseen and takes Stealth as a Move focus.

A starting player character has three talents, representing special abilities, advanced techniques, and other
significant benefits. These are abilities which define a
character, helping them to stand out and feel special.
Your chosen archetype will provide a single talent, and
it will suggest several options which are appropriately
thematic for that archetype. You may choose a different
talent if you wish, but at least one of your talents should
relate to your chosen archetypes in some way.
Some talents, such as Bold, have to be connected to a
particular skill. This connection is chosen when the talent
is picked and can only apply to that skill. However, such
a talent may be chosen again and applied to another
skill. So a character might have Bold (Battle) and Bold
(Communicate) as two of their talent picks, for example.
Once you’ve selected that first talent, you may select
DRIVE
IMPORTANCE

DRIVE
RATING

& D ri v e S t ateme n ts
Until now, the character creation process has focused on
“What does the character do?”. This step deals with the
other side of a character: what do they believe?
Every character has five drives—Duty, Faith, Justice,
Power, and Truth—which are described in the previous chapter. These are rated between 4 and 8, representing how important that drive is to the character,
with 8 representing the most important thing to the
character, while 4 represents something the character
cares little about.
During this step, you must rank the five drives according to their importance for the character. Then, in order,
assign the associated rating:
You can determine this order in any way you want, but
the key is that this is the point where you determine
who the character is and what they believe. Each archetype includes a couple of suggestions about the drives
that might be interesting to play for that archetype, but
these are suggestions only, and shouldn’t be considered
limits on what you create yourself.
Example: After much thought Claire chooses Faith 8,
Duty 7, Power 6, Truth 5, and Justice 4. Kara believes
that family and House are the bedrock of success,
but that ambition is what drives it. While she is not
a liar, she feels Truth is too easily manipulated and
Justice is rarely found in the Imperium.
Once you’ve defined the order of your character’s
drives, you’ll need to define some drive statements—a
statement for each of the three most important drives.
Drive statements are described in more detail on p.105106, with numerous example statements available there,
but this can be a tricky part of character creation, so
additional guidance is provided below.

@ A drive statement is one of the driving forces of
the character’s worldview and personality, shaping
how they interact with the worlds around them and
providing motivation for the things they do.

@ Drive statements should be easy to understand, so that
you and the gamemaster can both understand when
they’re helpful, when they’re a hindrance, and when they
don’t apply at all. If you don’t know if a drive statement
applies to a situation, you’re not able to use it.

@ You will want to have at least one drive statement
that poses a problem for your character, because
that’s how you can gain more Determination to
spend (see p.157).

@ Similarly, you’ll want at least one drive statement
which is helpful to your character, because that gives
you more opportunities to use a higher drive score,
and more opportunities to spend Determination.

@ Drive statements do not have to be positive about
the drive they’re attached to. Someone with a
strong drive in Truth doesn’t have to be honest, and
someone who believes strongly in Faith may believe
that faith and religion are dangerous or harmful.

@ Your drive statements can and should change over
time. The game allows for a character to challenge
their beliefs, changing the order of priority and the
attached statements, to reflect how people’s feelings
and opinions can shift over time. Because they can
change, you don’t need to worry too much about
choosing the perfect statements right away; simple
statements might be a better way to start, becoming
more complex as you play the character and their
feelings grow more nuanced.

O n e W ay t o
C h oo s e D r i v e s
One possible method for choosing how to order
your character’s drives is to compare each individual drive against the others, weighing which of two
drives is most important to the character.
With five drives in total, this will take ten questions (listed below, for convenience), and whichever drive wins most often is the most important,
second most often is second most important, and
so forth, until you’ve gotten your order. If two
drives are tied, look at the question asked about
those two drives—that’ll tell you how to break that
tie. If you get three drives all scoring the same
amount, you’ll need to think about which one your
character prioritizes, as there’s no easy way to
break that tie.

@ It doesn’t matter if your drive statements contradict
one another. A person can hold conflicting beliefs,
and the situations when those conflicting beliefs
clash is often a source of interesting roleplay and
tension in play.

@ A broad range is also good so you have the option
to use a statement on any test. With this in mind,
you may want to pick one that reflects how you
respond physically, one that reflects how you tend
to respond mentally, and one that reflects how you
respond socially.
Example: Claire needs to pick drive statements for Kara’s
three highest drives, which are Duty, Faith, and Power.
Remembering Kara’s faith in her family and House, and
her own ‘enlightened self interest’, she chooses “I am the
heir of my House” (for Duty),”My family trusts me” (for
Faith), and “I get what I want” (for Power).

Duty
or
Faith

Duty
or
Justice

Duty
or
Power

Duty
or
Truth

Faith
or
Truth

Justice
or
Truth

Power
or
Truth

Making
A ssets P ers o n a l
If you can usually obtain a knife, or a shield belt if
your House is wealthy enough, it may seem pointless to take one as one of your starting assets. The
obvious answer may seem to be that you don’t. But
it isn’t quite as simple as that. You may not want to
risk being caught out in the few situations where
you can’t obtain something you rely on.
But, beyond preparedness, if you still want to have
a ‘ubiquitous item’ as an asset, it should probably
be more than just a tool or resource—it should
be something personal, something special. This
may mean that the item takes an unusual form,
it’s exceptionally effective or well-crafted, or it has
some significant (and personal) history behind it.
You don’t merely own a knife: you own a crysknife,
or you proudly bear ‘the knife the Duke gave you
after the battle of Axian’, or you carry a ‘poisoned
knife’.
Such an item works as a normal knife would, though
it might have a higher Quality (see p.192), but the
item’s history may also make it useful in other situations. A crysknife is sacred amongst the Fremen and
bearing one may grant the wielder an advantage in
social conflicts with these desert-dwelling warriors.
A knife that was a gift might represent a special
bond between characters. In these cases, the extra
detail given to an asset reveals details about a character’s background that can be explored in play.

Assets represent the tools and resources available to
a character, which they can use to achieve their goals.
Chapter 7: Assets contains a list of the kinds of assets
available.
Each asset is a special kind of trait (see p. 143-144),
which describes a tool, resource, or something else
useful which a character possesses. These assets are
used during a conflict (as described in Chapter 6:
Conflict) to overcome opponents and obstacles. Some
of these assets are tangible—representing physical
things, from weapons and other small possessions, to
vehicles such as groundcars and ornithopters, to squads
of troops and the services of agents and other subordinates. Others are intangible, representing contacts,
favors, the ability to call upon friends, and similar useful
things which have no physical presence in their own
right.
A starting character should have three assets, one of
which must be tangible.

When it comes to tangible assets, most examples a
character will have should be personal equipment… but
the possibility exists for assets which represent things
larger than a character’s personal effects.
As a rule of thumb, your personal assets can include
anything you could carry on your person, any vehicle
which you could operate yourself, or any group of
subordinates which you could lead and coordinate
alone, such as a squad of troops. Larger vehicles—ones
requiring a crew to operate— and larger groups of subordinates that require other officers or a deeper chain of
command are not suitable as assets for a single character, though circumstances might grant you command of
these larger-scale assets in certain circumstances.
Example: As Kara is a fighter, Claire decides one
of Kara’s assets is a knife given to her by the
master assassin who taught her. As knives are easily
obtained, she decides it has the special attribute of
being easy to conceal. As a noblewoman she also
has a personal ornithopter as her second asset.
While it obviously can’t be carried with her, it is easily
accessible. Claire was tempted to create a handmaiden for Kara, but another player luckily wants
to play such as character already (who will be called
Anna). So instead she opts for something intangible
and decides she has some blackmail material on a
past lover. Who that is, and what it involves, can be
decided later.

At this stage, your character is almost complete, and
needs only a few final elements and adjustments. This
serves as a last chance to customize your character
before you begin playing, and a chance to make a few
decisions to turn the character from a collection of numbers and rules into a distinct person.

Example: Kara’s highest drive is Faith, and so Claire
decides she believes in destiny. Kara wants to gain
power for her House but also wishes to become a premier assassin. Her dream is to appear to be an ordinary
noblewoman but create a reputation as a master assassin that no one knows the real identity of.

TRAIT

Select one additional trait for your character, reflecting
the character’s reputation and how they are regarded
by others. These do not necessarily have to be accurate
descriptions of who the character is, only how others
perceive them; a character may seek to cultivate a reputation distinct from who they actually are.
Example: Claire decides that Kara’s dedication to
power needs to be tempered a little and decides
that Honorable should be her reputation trait.

Each player character has an ambition, which guides
their long-term actions. A character who takes steps
to achieve their ambitions will become more capable,
more influential, and generally more effective.
During character creation, your character’s ambition
should be based on their highest-rated drive, and your
gamemaster will work with you to define one for your
character, helping to create something which can come
up in play frequently. This ambition may change over
time as a character’s drives shift.

@ Duty ambitions are about service to a cause or

Coming up with the details that turn a character from a
collection of numbers and rules into a person is a vital
part of character creation, but a part that obviously
should be left to the very end, bringing together those
disparate elements into a cohesive whole.
NAME
Every character needs a name. This can be anything,
though it’s probably best to avoid anything that would
break the mood of the game. A character’s name
reflects their culture—different worlds may have differing traditions for how people are named—and their
upbringing. Characters who belong to the group’s
House (rather than being vassals or servants) will likely
use the House’s name as their surname, in part or in full.
Characters may also have private or personal names,
used only by those close to them, or they may assume
official or ceremonial names for specific purposes.
Many characters may also be known more by informal
nicknames rather than their full name. Characters who
engage in criminal activity or espionage may have multiple names and aliases which they use instead of their
normal name.
Many cultures use a patronymic or matronymic—the
father’s or mother’s name, with a prefix or suffix such as
‘-son’—alongside or instead of a family name, or they
may keep the family names of both parents. It’s also
fairly common for some cultures to place the family
name first, with the personal name afterwards.

@ Justice ambitions are driven by a sense of fairness or
balance, or a desire to right wrongs and injustices…
including personal grudges and vendettas.

@ Truth ambitions often include uncovering knowledge
or revealing secrets, concealing knowledge or
protecting secrets, spreading knowledge (including
propaganda or misinformation), or exposing the lies
of others.

PERSONALITY
Once you’ve got an idea of what your character does,
and believes, and you’ve thought about how others
perceive them, consider what sort of personality your
character has. Are they stoic or grim? Are they disciplined and orderly? Adventurous? Wise? Thoughtful?
Tired of routine? Calm and circumspect? Even a few
adjectives like this can help in locking down the personality of a character.
Whatever you decide, your character isn’t always like
this—like any person, your character is a nuanced, complex individual who is affected by moods and circumstances as much as their drives and personality. Characters can, and will, evolve over time, but it’s a good idea
to understand how your character is likely to behave in
normal circumstances.
A character’s drives and drive statements are a good
basis for this: a character who is devout or dutiful may
act in ways that reflect their beliefs. If you’ve had any
difficulty coming up with drive statements for a character, now is a good time to think about them in more
detail.
If you are stuck, try and find answers to the following
questions:

@ Are your outfits practical or impractical?
@ Have you any distinguishing marks, such as a tattoo
or a scar?
RELATIONSHIPS
Life does not occur in isolation. Characters are connected to others and will have formed relationships
throughout their life. Consider your character’s family
relationships: Where is the rest of their family? Do
they have a spouse or partner somewhere? Is the
character in contact with the rest of their family regularly, and are they close at hand, or on a distant world
somewhere else in the Imperium?
What about the people around the character? How
do the main characters get on with one another?
How does the character regard other members,
agents, and servants of the House, and how are they
regarded in turn? Is the character close friends with
other characters in the House’s service, relaxing with
them? Does the character have any personal enemies
or rivals?
These details can make the interaction between characters more interesting and add more depth to your
character. Like a character’s personality, a character’s
relationships can—and should—evolve over time, and
some relationships may become so strong (whether
friendly or adversarial) that they become major factors
in the character’s life.
If you are stuck, try and find answers to the following
questions:

@ How much do you respect the rulers of your House?
@ What (if anything) would make you betray those
around you?
Example: Kara Molay is an average looking woman in
her early twenties. She has a natural grace developed
from her exceptional fighting skills. She doesn’t often
say very much, preferring to watch those around her
first. She dresses well in the fashions of court, but
doesn’t try to stand out. She is utterly dedicated to
her family but also considers anything that benefits her
to benefit the House. While she is dedicated to her
friends, she would sacrifice almost anything to advance
her House.

DRIVE

SKILL

As the eldest daughter of House Molay, Kara was
sent to the Bene Gesserit for training, as much
for her edification as to keep her out of the way.
However, instead of returning from the Sisters with
courtly graces, she came back to
House Molay a deadly knife
fighter and skilled politician.
She now works to reclaim
her rightful place as heir
to the House against her
many devious brothers, as she sees all
of them as unfit to
rule.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Noble, Honorable, Bene Gesserit
Ambition: To become a secret master assassin (Faith)

character is more than the sum of their
parts, and a character’s skills, drives, and
focuses alone do not give a full picture of
what they are truly capable of. Exceptional
abilities, such as Mentat training, or the
many and varied powers of a Bene Gesserit, are a form
of talent, but talents can take other forms too, representing some of the ways which set a player character apart
from ordinary people.

Talents normally take the form of a mechanical bonus
—re-rolls, bonus Momentum, the ability to succeed automatically on certain tests, or unique ways to use Momentum, Threat, or Determination. No talent may be selected
more than once, unless otherwise noted.
The following is a selection of talents which characters
may select.

You are adept at getting people back on their feet, even
if you only make them forget their pain for a moment.
By using an action, the character can remove the
effects of any physical complication from a character who is in the same zone. This complication is not
removed and returns at the end of the scene unless
otherwise removed. This talent can only be used once
on a given character during each scene, but can be
used on each character.

ADVISOR (SKILL)

You’ve got a knack for guiding others through problems.
When you choose this talent, select a single skill. Whenever you assist an ally and you use that skill, the ally you
assist may re-roll a single d20 in their dice pool.

Whether through your demeanor, your reputation,
or the method of your persuasion, you have a way of
making people reluctant to break faith with you.
When you succeed at a Communicate test to persuade
someone to agree to a promise or agreement, you may
spend one, two, or three points of Momentum to make
that agreement binding. If that person wishes to break
the promise, they must spend Threat equal to twice the
Momentum you spent.

BOLD (SKILL)

ter to state something that is likely to occur in the future.
You may ask for one additional prediction for every two
points of Momentum you spend. The Gamemaster can
make these predictions vague and they do not have to
explain any context for the prediction or why that thing
is likely to occur.

CAUTIOUS (SKILL)

You are patient and circumspect, acting only when the
odds are in your favor.
When you select this talent, choose a single skill. When
you attempt a test using that skill, and you buy additional d20s by spending Momentum, you may re-roll a
single d20 in that dice pool.

COLLABORATION (SKILL)

You’ve coached your allies to capitalize on your expertise, and that effort has paid off.
When you select this talent, choose a single skill with a
rating of 6 or more. Whenever an ally attempts a test
using that skill, and you can communicate with them,
you may spend 2 points of Momentum to allow them to
use your score for that skill, and one of your focuses (if
applicable).

You are skilled at offering rapid medical attention, even
during a battle.
When an ally in combat has suffered points towards the
requirement to defeat them, you may spend 1 point of
Momentum to reduce that point total by 2 as an action.

When you take calculated risks, you tend to succeed
more often than seems reasonable.
When you select this talent, choose a single skill. When
you attempt a test using the chosen skill, and you buy
additional d20s by generating Threat for the gamemaster, you may re-roll a single d20 in that dice pool.

Your certainty and resolve are a beacon to others, who
might waver without your example.
Once per scene, when an ally fails a skill test, you may
immediately spend 2 points of Momentum or add 2 to
Threat to allow that ally to re-roll their dice pool. When
they re-roll, they may use your Discipline score instead
of the skill they were using.

You may spend a few minutes to meditate upon predicting the future. This requires an Understand test with a
Difficulty of 4; if successful, you may ask the Gamemas-

You’re vigilant, bordering on paranoid… and little
catches you off-guard.
Whenever you attempt a skill test to detect danger or
hidden enemies, you reduce the Difficulty by 2, to a
minimum of 0. In addition, once per scene, when an
enemy chooses to Keep the Initiative, you can increase
the cost to do so by +2.

COOL UNDER PRESSURE (SKILL)

When the situation gets tough, you take a deep breath
and get the job done.
When you select this talent, choose a single skill. When
you attempt a test using that skill, before rolling you may
spend a Determination point to automatically succeed at
that test, but you generate no Momentum. The normal
conditions for spending Determination still apply.

DECISIVE ACTION

In a conflict, when you succeed at a Battle test to
remove an opponent’s assets, and you bought one
or more dice by generating Threat, you may spend 2
points of Momentum to remove a second enemy asset.

Whenever you spend a point of Determination, the
gamemaster will grant you an additional insight. This
may relate to your current activities, or it may be completely unrelated.

At the start of a scene, if there is no Momentum in the
group pool, roll 1d20. If you roll equal to or less than your
Discipline score, add 1 to the group Momentum pool.

Every step you take is considered, and you are exceptionally sure-footed.
When you attempt a Move test and suffer one or more
complications, you may spend Momentum to ignore
some or all of those complications; this costs 1 point of
Momentum per complication ignored.

Your will and presence can drive others to act swiftly
and efficiently.
Once per scene, you may command an ally or subordinate to act. This requires no test from you, but the commanded ally may immediately attempt an action of their
own, and you may assist any test they attempt. If done
during a conflict, the ally acts on your turn regardless
of if they have already acted, and this does not prevent
them acting later during the round.

DRIVEN

Your determination does not waver.
After you spend a point of Determination, roll 1d20. If
you roll equal to or under your Discipline rating (by itself),
you immediately regain that point of Determination.

You owe your service and your life to two different factions equally, and you have the trust of both.
Choose two factions to be loyal to. This will normally be
your House and another group such as the Bene Gesserit,
but it can be to any two factions you would reasonably have
contact with. Both factions are aware of your loyalties to
both and expect that you will not betray one to the other.
You may interact on friendly terms with members of both
factions, without any expectations of betrayal or other peril.

You have connections to the Spacing Guild, granting
you more access to their resources than most. You are
not a Navigator, but you may be an agent, representative, banker, diplomat, or similar associate of the Guild.
Once per adventure, you may call upon your Spacing
Guild connection to use Guild facilities or resources, or
to organize a meeting with important persons within the
Guild. You do not have the authority to make demands
of the Guild itself. If you need to use Guild resources
more than once during the course of an adventure, the
second time adds 2 to Threat, the third time adds 4,
and so forth, adding +2 to the cost each time, as your
increased use risks drawing undue attention to you.

You are a master at concealing your intentions and
motivations. Few truly know what drives you, even if
they think they understand you.
When an opponent fails an Understand or Communicate
test against you, you may immediately create a trait
which reflects a mistaken belief they have about you.

HYPERAWARENESS (BENE GESSERIT TALENT)
Your training has honed your awareness to an incredible
degree, allowing you to notice details too small for others
to perceive. Armed with these insights, you can uncover
secrets and truths that others may be oblivious to.
Whenever you spend Momentum to Obtain Information about the current situation, your current location,
or a person you can currently observe, you may ask two
questions for the first point of Momentum spent. Further, the limits of what others would be able to notice
do not apply to you for any questions.

You cannot willingly inflict harm upon or kill a human
being. Any attempt to coerce you into such an action automatically fails, and you automatically succeed on any skill
test to persuade another that you intend them no harm.

tum to improve that asset’s Quality by 1 for the next
conflict in this scene.

You are entrusted with greater access to the tools and
resources you need to achieve your goals.
You may increase the number of assets you possess by
+1. This talent may be purchased multiple times.

You are able to turn the most innocuous items into
deadly weapons at a moment’s notice.
Once per scene you may create a Quality 0 asset (at no
cost) that you can use in a personal or skirmish conflict.
It might be a rock, broken bottle, or shard of glass,
but it is enough to function as a weapon. The asset is
removed at the end of any conflict it is used for, as it will
be too badly damaged to use again.

When you attempt a Communicate test, you may
choose to increase the Difficulty of the test by +1 to
conceal a hidden message within your words. You must
state who is the intended recipient of this hidden message. People other than the intended recipient cannot
discern that you have concealed another message,
unless they have this talent, or some other ability to
detect things which people cannot normally detect
(such as the Hyperawareness talent).

MENTAT DISCIPLINE (MENTAT TALENT)

Intense mental conditioning and extensive training have
developed your intellect into a potent and valuable
thing. You can retain and process vast amounts of information at extraordinary speeds.
You have almost perfect recall, for even the most complex data. When making an Understand test that applies
to recalling data, one of the D20s in your pool may be
considered to have rolled a 1 instead of rolling it.

Once per scene, you may use your Understand skill on
a single skill test instead of any other skill, and you are
counted as having a focus for that test.

There is value in speed, even if there are consequences.
When you attempt a Move test, you may choose to
suffer one additional complication in exchange for
scoring one automatic success on the test. During any
conflict, you may add 1 to Threat to take the first action,
regardless of who would otherwise act first.

You can intimate that you know more than you do about
an enemy’s secrets.
Once per scene you may create an asset (at no cost)
such as blackmail evidence or an owed favor that will
allow you to initiate an intrigue or espionage conflict
with a person of your choosing. The asset is a lie, of
course; you don’t have anything, but your target doesn’t
know that. The asset is removed once the conflict is
over, and if you are defeated the fact you were bluffing
is exposed and you suffer an additional complication.

Your expertise in battle is considerable, and few can
match your effectiveness in combat.

You have exceptional recall and can reconstruct events
and places you have experienced with perfect accuracy,
allowing you to revisit them later.
You may attempt a Difficulty 0 Understand test to recall
a past event or a place you have previously been to.
Momentum you generate on this test may be spent to
recall facts and details about that event or location; this is
treated like Obtain Information, but you may ask questions about things you have previously encountered, rather
than merely those which are currently present in the scene.

You’re quick on your feet, and few obstacles can
impede you.
When attempting a Move test to move over, around,
or through difficult terrain or similar physical obstacles
(such as during a duel or skirmish), you may reduce the
Difficulty of the test by 2. If this reduces the Difficulty to
0, you may move over or around that obstacle freely as
if it wasn’t there.

At the start of a duel, skirmish, or battle scene, select a
single asset that represents a melee weapon or a unit of
troops. Due to your prowess, you may spend 1 Momen-

You must be a Reverend Mother of the Bene Gesserit
(and have an appropriate trait reflecting this) to select
this talent. If this talent is selected in play, another Reverend Mother must be on hand and in physical contact
to pass this genetic memory on to you.
Whenever you attempt a test where knowledge of past
events—even those which may have occurred many
generations ago—would be beneficial, you score three
automatic successes. You may also share your genetic
memory with other Reverend Mothers at will.

When time is of the essence, you prioritize getting the
work done over covering your tracks.
When you attempt an Understand test to search an area,
you may add 2 to Threat to reduce the difficulty of the
test by 1, and to halve the amount of time the test takes
to attempt.

When you enter a scene, you may ask one question of
the gamemaster as if you’d spent Momentum to Obtain
Information.

When attempting a skill test to reach a destination
quickly when moving on foot or in a vehicle, reduce the
Difficulty by 1. In a conflict, when moving an asset, you
may move the asset an additional zone for 1 point of
Momentum, rather than 2.

Your skill with music or poetry helps to soothe and
inspire your comrades.
Once per scene you may entertain the group with a
short performance. This might be playing the balliset,
singing, reciting a poem, dancing, or even juggling.
Once the performance is over you may add 1 to the
group’s Momentum pool.

You have absolute control over your body. Every muscle
and every nerve is under your control, and you have even
mastered your own body chemistry and metabolism.
Whenever you attempt a Move or Discipline test which
relies on your control of your body, you may re-roll a
single d20. You can perfectly control your breathing,
heart rate, and your internal organs (including the ability
to choose whether to conceive a child, and to determine the child’s physical and genetic traits).

You’ve learned how to quickly turn newfound knowledge into a practical advantage.
Once per scene, when you Obtain Information, you
may create a trait for free, which must represent an

You’re fast, able to cross ground, find the shortest
route, and bring your tools to bear quicker than most.

RAPID RECOVERY

You return to fighting form quickly after being injured,
even when it may be risky to return to the fray.
Once per scene, at the start of your turn, you may add
+2 to Threat to remove a complication which represents
an injury. In addition, you may pay to Resist Defeat one
additional time during a conflict.

RESILIENCE (SKILL) (FREMEN TALENT)

It takes a lot to put you down in a conflict. You get back
up more often than most.
Usually you may only ‘Resist Defeat’ once per scene.
You can do so twice per scene, but only when in a conflict using the listed skill.

You are an island of calm amidst the chaos of the
universe, maintaining control over yourself when you
cannot control anything else.
Whenever you are attempting an extended task where
the requirement is based on one of your skills, at the
cost of 1 Momentum you may use your Discipline for
that requirement instead of the skill normally used. If the
requirement would normally be based on your Discipline,
reduce the requirement by 1 for that extended task.

Your duties require you to manage a greater type of a
specific kind of asset.
You may purchase this talent multiple times. Each time you
select this talent, choose a single category of asset from the
following list: dueling, warfare, espionage, or intrigue. You
increase the number of assets you possess by +2, but those
two additional assets must be from the chosen category.

Momentum points, which you may use to Obtain Information or to create a trait that represents some knowledge or insight you’ve gained about your opponent.

When you succeed at a Communicate test to address
a group of people, you may select a number of those
people equal to your Communicate skill. Those characters may re-roll a single d20 on the next test they
attempt which uses the same drive that you used on
your Communicate test.

You’re well-versed in methods of avoiding notice, and
you reveal little that you do not intend to.
When you attempt a Move test to sneak or otherwise
pass unseen through an area, or when you attempt to
move an asset subtly during a conflict, the first extra d20
you purchase for the test is free.

You are skilled at swaying others with a few quiet words
spoken in the right place at the right time. Even they
may not realize what influence your words have had.
When you attempt a Communicate test, and you buy
one or more dice by spending Momentum, you may
create a new trait for free upon the character you have
spoken to, which reflects your influence upon their
thoughts or mood.

Whenever you attempt an Understand test, you generate one bonus Momentum point for each die you
bought by adding to Threat. This bonus Momentum
may only be used to Obtain Information about the most
effective ways to harm or inflict pain upon a person
within the scene, or to create a trait which represents a
weakness you have discovered which you can exploit.
This Talent may only be chosen in character creation.

Your loyalty to your House is such that it can drive you
to action even in the direst of circumstances.
At the start of each adventure, you begin with one
additional point of Determination. This extra point can
only be used on an action which is in direct service to
your House.

THE REASON I FIGHT (DRIVE)

You may spend a point of Momentum to ask the gamemaster if a piece of information you have is true or
false. You need not be making a skill test as with Obtain
Information, and the data can be your supposition as
much as a specific document or rumor.

When you select this talent, choose a single drive rated
6 or higher. When you attempt a Battle test using the
chosen drive, and the drive’s statement aligns with the
action being attempted, you may re-roll 1d20.

Skill is not the only factor in determining victory;
those who want it more, and those who are driven by
a greater sense of purpose, may triumph when they
should have failed.

The slow blade pierces the shield. You’re well-versed in
the subtle ways of avoiding an opponent’s defenses.
When you make an attack during a duel or a skirmish
using a melee weapon, and you buy one or more dice
by spending Momentum, you may choose one of the
enemy’s assets in the same zone as your attack; you can
ignore that asset during your attack.

TO FIGHT SOMEONE
IS TO KNOW THEM (SKILL)

You are an expert in studying your foes in conflict,
learning how they think and gleaning secrets from them
based on how they move, attack, and defend.

You have been trained to modulate your voice to influence the subconscious minds of others. With this skill
you can subtly manipulate others, alter motivations and
moods, or even compel action from the unwilling.
You may use Voice whenever you speak to someone
else, though you must be able to observe them for a
short while beforehand, and they must be able to hear
you speak. When you use Voice, you may add one, two,
or three points to Threat to score the same number of
automatic successes on any Communicate test made to
influence your chosen target. The greater the number of
automatic successes, the more overt your use of Voice,
which others may notice. Your training also allows you
to buy those automatic successes on any test made to
resist the effects of Voice.

When you select this talent, choose a skill. When you
win a conflict using the chosen skill, you gain two bonus

This method allows you to partially create your character,
leaving a number of details undefined, so that you can
choose them when they come up during play, revealing
the character through their actions in the same way that
a character’s capabilities might be revealed to a reader or
viewer in a story.
Creating the partial character should be a relatively quick
process, but one that requires you to make a few decisions early. This method uses the following steps:
1. Create your character’s concept
(and faction template if appropriate).
2. Choose an archetype and record primary (7) and
secondary (6) skill ratings.
3. Choose a focus.
4. Choose one talent.
5. Choose one drive and create a drive statement.
6. Choose one asset.
7. Fill in character details.
8. Begin play!

STEP FIVE:
DRIVES AND DRIVE STATEMENTS

Create concept and pick faction if appropriate.
Just as in planned character creation, the first step in
creating a player character is to decide what general
sort of character to create. Again, it’s helpful to keep
this concept relatively vague at this stage, as it gives
you room to change and adapt.
If you decide you want to play a faction character, choose
one of the templates and note the additional trait.
Once you have a concept that you’re happy with,
move on to the next step.

From archetype, record one trait, primary skill (7),
and secondary skill (6).
Next, select a general archetype for the character and
record the career trait that comes with it. Put a rating
of 7 for the primary skill listed and a rating of 6 for the
secondary skill listed. Ignore the other three skills for
now. It is perfectly reasonable to pick an archetype
based only on the primary and secondary skills it offers
and amend it to suit your concept.
These archetypes are the same as those listed under
planned character creation, starting on p.114.

STEP THREE: FOCUSES

Pick one drive (8) and its statement.

Every character has five drives—Duty, Faith, Justice,
Power, and Truth—which are described on p.105.
From these five, select one drive. This is the character’s
most important drive and receives a rating of 8. This is
the thing most important to the character, so you need
to know it in advance.
Next, define a drive statement for this drive. Drive
statements are described in detail on p.106, and
additional guidance on creating them appears in the
Planned Creation section on p.120-121.
The other four drives remain blank at this stage: you’ll
fill them in later, during play.

STEP SIX: ASSETS
Pick one asset.

A starting character should have three assets, one of
which must be tangible, but during character creation
you only need to choose one of them right away. This
will presumably be the asset the character possesses
which is most important or obvious.
The other two assets will be decided later, during play.

Pick two focuses.

Your chosen archetype will provide two focuses, one
of which will usually be associated with the archetype’s
primary skill, and the other of which will be associated
with the archetype’s secondary skill. Record these as
your first two focuses. However, if there is a focus you
feel would suit your character better you may substitute it for either of these.
Your character has two other focuses, but these are
left blank for the moment: you’ll decide what they are
during play.

At this stage, your character is almost ready for play, but
you need to make a few decisions to turn the character
from a collection of numbers and rules into a distinct
person.
Elements like the character’s name—so that other
characters know what to call them—and a basic sense
of their appearance, personality, and so forth are
crucial for bringing the character to life, even in this
partially-assembled sense.
Guidance on character details of this sort can be found
on p.123.

Pick one of the talents listed in your archetype as your
first talent. If you have opted for a faction template,
you must pick one of your mandatory talents for this
option. If your faction demands multiple mandatory
talents, record them all now (and you will have fewer
to choose during play).
Your character will have two other talents, but these
are left blank for the moment: you’ll decide what they
are during play.

@ You’ll have one trait left to define, which will reflect
your character’s reputation.

@ You’ll have three skills left to define.
@ You’ll have two focuses left to define.
@ You’ll have two talents left to define.
@ You’ll have four drives left to define, along with
drive statements for two of them.

@ You’ll have to define your character’s ambition.
@ You’ll have two additional assets left to define.
While you have these details undefined, you may not
gain advancement points or purchase advancements
for your character.

Running
C re ati o n i n P l ay
While you have a character ready to go, it isn’t
quite complete. However, as you play the game and
develop the concept you have of the character, you
can gradually fill in the rest of their skills and abilities.
Whenever your character is faced with a new situation,
they might use an ability they already have, or choose
to define one that would be useful from their remaining options. By defining an ability in this way, the
character is not suddenly learning how to perform it;
instead, they finally reveal an ability they already had
to the other characters.
So, if your character does not have a rating for their
Battle skill, they might choose to define it in their first
combat. As such, it is up to the player to decide how
good they are, based on what options they still must
define. You might decide the character is a lethal fighter
or not suited for fighting at all. But whatever the rating
is, it is something they have always had. This means
that if you don’t have a rating in the Battle skill and
your character gets into a fight, you will either have to
run, hide, or make a decision about how good they are
pretty quickly. It also means that if the character has
boasted of their martial prowess before defining it and
the player decides to give them a low Battle score when
it is first tested, they have been clearly exaggerating
their ability.
As a player it is tempting to assign the highest rating
available to the skill you need each time you are faced
with a situation. But it is important to remember that
eventually you will only have your worst skills left. So
consider carefully what you want your character to be
good at in the long term and be prepared to take the
odd knock or two as you learn about their true abilities.
It is also worth watching what each of the other players
pick and allowing each other the spotlight. If you are
faced with defining your Communicate skill and another
player seems keen to have a high Communicate rating,
it is worth taking a step back and letting them shine
in the situation. As everyone has the same values to
assign, sooner or later everyone will get a moment to
be the best at something, and this will make the group
more dynamic. Remember, your characters are a team,
so it is fine to rely on each other. Don’t expect to be
good at everything.
When running creation in play, the gamemaster should
bear a few things in mind as well. The main thing to
remember is that the players will need opportunities
to define their characters’ attributes and abilities. It
is therefore a good idea to run as many situations as
required to test each of their abilities. While this is reasonably simple for skills, it is a lot harder for drives, as a
player may often use the same drive for many different

tests and situations. Focuses and talents also offer a
problem as the player won’t know them all. If the gamemaster is familiar with the various special abilities, they
should suggest them to the players when they might be
useful. “You know, if you had the Bold (Communicate)
talent this test would be a lot easier.” Failing that, the
players can flag moments they would like to be just that
little bit better than usual in a situation and use those
moments to check in the book for a talent or focus that
they can define to help them out.
While the gamemaster can run creation in play with
any adventure, they might consider running more of an
‘origin story’ for the group. The adventure might bring
the characters together, possibly for their first mission.
But it might even focus on how they came to be part of
their House and what made them pledge loyalty to it.
The needs of continued character creation will slow
down the action a little. But that’s fine as you are
all getting use to the rules and what would suit the
characters. So, take your time and allow the group
to discuss what they feel would be a useful ability to
add to the group (even if the players themselves don’t
want it for their character). While there is a lot of fun
to be had creating in play, the group should also be
focused on completing the characters. For this reason,
the gamemaster should set a limit to how long this part
of the campaign will go on. They might want every
character done by the end of the first session or allow
three or four sessions or a full starting adventure to be
completed before calling creation to an end. Whatever
the limit, anything undefined by the end of this time
should be defined outside of play at the end of the
session. By this time all the players should be familiar
enough with their characters and the rules to make
informed decisions and complete their characters.
To make creation in play simpler we have divided the
remaining character choices into a series of options
that can be used a limited amount of times. Each
player should ideally copy this list and tick them off as
they use them.

DEFINING A TRAIT

During play, whenever you attempt an action which
may be affected by how others regard your character,
you may choose to define your remaining trait before
the action is resolved. When the action is resolved, the
newly-defined trait is considered in how the action is
resolved.
This option may be used once.

DEFINING SKILLS

During play, when you attempt a skill test which uses a
skill which is undefined, you may choose to define it.
You may choose to give the skill a rating of 4, 5, or 6.

Each of those ratings may only be assigned to a single
skill—that is, once you’ve assigned a rating of 6 to a
skill, you may not assign a 6 to any other skill.

When you create a drive statement for your character in this way, you immediately receive a point of
Determination.

Once you’ve defined the skill’s rating, roll and resolve
the skill test as normal.

Once you’ve done this, resolve the skill test as normal;
this could include suffering a complication due to the
drive statement, though you cannot challenge a drive
until the character is complete: that sort of life-changing
decision should wait until the character is fully-formed.

This option may be used three times, once for each
remaining skill.

DEFINING FOCUSES

This option may be taken four times, once for each
remaining drive.

During play, when you attempt a skill test, and you do
not have a focus which applies to that test, you may
choose to define one of your remaining focuses.

Once you have chosen the focus, roll and resolve the
skill test as normal.
This option may be used twice, once for each remaining
focus.

During play, at any point, you may select a single talent
for which you fulfil the requirements and add that talent
to those you know. If you are about to attempt a skill
test and the talent would provide an advantage on that
test, you gain the talent’s benefits on that test.
This option may be used twice, once for each remaining
talent.

DEFINING DRIVES

During play, when you attempt a skill test, you may
choose to define one of your undefined drives.

At any point during play, you may choose to define your
character’s ambition. It must be based on the character’s
most important drive, and the gamemaster will help you
define it to ensure that it will come up in play in future.
This option may be taken once.

DEFINING ASSETS

At any point during play, you may choose to define one
or your remaining assets. This follows the normal rules
for choosing starting assets. You may choose to do this
immediately before attempting an action in which the
asset would be useful; once you’ve finished defining
the asset, continue attempting the action as normal.
Remember to be realistic with any asset you might have
supposedly been carrying. However, while you can’t
have an ornithopter in your pocket, you might come
across one ready to fly.
This option may be taken twice, once for each remaining asset.

Decide how important the drive is to your character,
and assign the corresponding rating, as shown on the
following table:

DRIVE
DRIVE
MEANING
IMPORTANCE RATING
1st

Once all the options above have been selected, the
character is considered complete. From this point on,
the character may earn advancement points and spend
them to purchase advances.

If the drive is your 2nd or 3rd most important (and thus
has a rating of 6 or higher), then you must also create a
drive statement for it.

@ They represent the people who serve the group’s
House in various minor and lesser capacities, from
functionaries, to spies, to soldiers, and more besides.
Some of these may even be assets of a player character.

@ They allow players to take on different roles in play,
allowing them to capitalize on a skillset that doesn’t
exist among the main characters, to play a more
active role in an adventure that doesn’t focus on their
main character, or to account for players who are
absent.

U si n g a
S u pp o rti n g C h a r acter
At the start of a scene, a player may choose which
character they are using: their main character, or one
of the supporting characters currently available. For
the duration of that scene, that player will control the
character they have chosen—the character chosen is a
player character.
The player, and the gamemaster, should keep in
mind—or keep note of—where the main characters and
supporting characters are at different times, and it will
typically be the case that a player will choose a character located in the scene being established. However, this
means that if the gamemaster ends a scene, and then
establishes the next scene in a location occupied by a
different set of characters, the players can easily switch
to the appropriate characters without having to stop
and figure out who is involved and who isn’t.
If a player has multiple characters in a single scene, then
the player may not directly control those other characters. Characters which are not under the direct control
of any player cannot perform the full range of actions
available to a character under a player’s control. Instead,
they can do the following things:

@ Difficulty 0 Tests: A character not directly controlled

by a player may attempt any action in which they
will automatically succeed, such as any test which
has a Difficulty of 0. If required to attempt a test with
a Difficulty above 0, an uncontrolled character will
automatically fail, without rolling dice.

by a player may assist another character’s tests.
The normal rules for assistance apply, and even
uncontrolled characters may only assist a single
character at a time.

@ Follow Orders: A character not directly controlled by a
player may take actions when ordered. In this instance,
the ordering character instructs the uncontrolled
character, and then the uncontrolled character can
attempt that action—which may include a test—
normally, with assistance from the ordering character.

@ Sacrifice: An uncontrolled character can be sacrificed
to prevent a controlled character from being
defeated or otherwise incapacitated. This costs 1
point of Momentum or adds 1 to Threat, and causes
the uncontrolled character to suffer whatever fate
would have befallen the controlled character.

Further, uncontrolled characters can be treated as a trait,
to allow a test to be attempted which would otherwise
be impossible (for activities that would require multiple
people), or to reduce the Difficulty of a test—simply providing an extra pair of hands and an extra set of senses
can be valuable. Note that this does mean that, working in concert, a group of uncontrolled characters can
achieve more difficult actions—reducing test Difficulty to
0 so that they can attempt and succeed at the action.
If you have multiple characters in a single scene, and
the character you are playing is defeated or otherwise
incapacitated, you may immediately select a single
uncontrolled character to take control of.

You may create an unlimited number of minor
supporting characters during play, with each one
costing one point of Momentum or adding one to
Threat. If you are not controlling another character in the scene, you may ignore this cost for one
minor supporting character. This means you always
have a free minor supporting character to bring in
if you do not have anyone else to play as; bringing
in more than that requires spending Momentum or
adding to Threat.
You can create a minor supporting character in the
following way:

@ Traits: A minor supporting character has a

single trait, which is a basic description of the
character’s job or role, such as ‘House Trooper’,
‘Servant’, or ‘Spy’.

@ Drives: Minor supporting characters do not

have any drive scores. Instead, they have a
single Drive rating, which ranges from 4 to 8,
which is added to their target number instead
of a drive for any test. This can be thought of as
comparable to their Duty drive, as it represents
how effective and dutiful they are. They have
no drive statements. Most minor supporting
characters have a Drive of 5 to begin with. If
they serve the secondary domain of the House
this may be 6, and if they serve the primary
domain it can be 7. Otherwise, especially low
ranking minor supporting characters might just
start with 4.

@ Skills: Minor supporting characters have one

skill ranked at 6 (which should be the one most
relevant to their job), two skills ranked at 5, and
two skills ranked at 4.

@ Focuses: Minor supporting characters have one
focus for any skill ranked at 6, two focuses for
any skill ranked at 7, and three focuses for any
skill ranked at 8 (if an NPC the gamemaster has
granted higher score to).

Creating a new notable supporting character costs
3 points of Momentum or adds 3 points to Threat,
plus any additional costs incurred during creation.
Reusing an existing notable supporting character
requires paying half what it cost to create them,
rounding up.
To create a Notable supporting character:

@ Traits: A notable supporting character has

one trait, which is a basic description of the
character’s job or role, such as ‘Military Officer’,
‘Steward’, ‘Pilot’, or ‘Scholar’. For an extra +1
to their cost, add a second trait, reflecting the
character’s reputation.

@ Drives: Notable supporting characters have

scores in two drives, which are rated at 6 and
7. For all other drives, they use a score of 5.
They have a single drive statement for one of
their higher-rated drives. For an extra +1 to
their cost, add a drive statement to their other
higher-rated drive.

@ Skills: Notable supporting characters typically

have one skill ranked at 7 (which should be the
one most relevant to their job), one ranked at
6, two ranked at 5, and one at 4. For an extra
+1 to their cost, add +1 to two different skills.

@ Focuses: Notable supporting characters have

one focus for any skill ranked at 6, two focuses
for any skill ranked at 7, and three focuses for
any skill ranked at 8. For an extra +1 to their
cost, add two additional focuses to any skills
rated 6 or higher.

hen characters serve their own interests, they
have the potential to advance. Actions taken
during play which serve a character’s personal
agenda score advancement points, which
in turn allow the character to improve their
skills, learn additional focuses, and obtain new talents.

There are a few other ways that characters can gain
advancement points as well, but these occur less frequently.

GAINING ADVANCEMENT POINTS

USING ADVANCEMENT POINTS

During an adventure, you can gain advancement
points in the following ways:

@ Adversity: You can gain advancement points from
facing difficult situations, making mistakes, and
suffering the consequences of actions. Failure is a
harsh teacher.

@ Pain: Gain 1 advancement point when you are
defeated during conflict.

@ Failure: Gain 1 advancement point when you fail a
test with a Difficulty of 3 or higher.

Over time, you will accumulate advancement points.
Between adventures, you may choose to use any
points you’ve accumulated to purchase an advance.
You may purchase a maximum of a single advance
after each adventure.

@ Skill: You may increase one of your skills by +1.

Each skill may only be advanced in this way once,
and no skill may be advanced to more than 8.
This costs 10 advancement points, plus 1 for each
previous skill advance purchased.

@ Focus: You may purchase an additional focus

@ Peril: Gain 1 advancement point whenever the

gamemaster spends four or more points of Threat
at once.

Ambition: You gain advancement points whenever
you succeed at an action which supports your ambition (this does not require a skill test, but if the action
involved a skill test, the test must have been successful). You receive 1 advancement point if the action
made a minor contribution to your ambition, or 3 if the
action was a major contribution to your ambition.
Impressing the Group: If the group wants to reward
an especially good plan, roleplayed scene, or other
especially noteworthy contribution, the player in
question may be given an extra advancement point.
Such rewards should be restricted to one per session
for any player.

for any skill which is rated 6 or higher. This costs
advancement points equal to the number of
focuses you already have.

@ Talent: You may purchase an additional talent from
those available to you. This costs advancement
points equal to three times the number of talents
you already have.

@ Asset: You may select an asset (other than one which
only existed for a single scene) to make permanent.
This costs 3 advancement points. Alternatively, you
may work to improve one of your existing assets,
adding +1 to its Quality, by spending advancement
points equal to twice the asset's new Quality.

You also have the option to retrain, allowing one ability
to atrophy or diminish with disuse while developing
another. Retraining in this way halves the number of
advancement points required (round up), but comes at
a cost:

@ If you retrain a skill, then one skill is also reduced

by 1, to a minimum of 4. This does not count as the
one advancement allowed for that skill.

@ If you retrain a focus, then you must remove a
single focus you already possess.

@ If you retrain a talent, then you must remove a
talent you already possess.

A character’s drives cannot be altered through
advancement. They have their own mechanism for
change, described on p.146-147.

Dune: Adventures in the Imperium uses a single type
of dice to resolve the actions a character may attempt
and the situations they may face: twenty-sided dice, often
referred to as a d20. Most of the time more than one die
is rolled at once: these dice are collectively referred to as
a dice pool. The number of dice being rolled are noted as
Xd20, where X is the number of dice being rolled, so 2d20
means two twenty-sided dice are rolled.

@ Traits: A character has two or more traits, which

serve as basic descriptions of who the character
is. These interact with the rules in the same way as
other traits.

@ Skills: A character has scores in five broad skills—

Battle, Communicate, Discipline, Move, and
Understand—ranging from 4 to 8. These determine
how capable a character is at a certain type of
activity and are used as part of a character’s target
number when they make a skill test.

@ Focuses: A character has focuses for several of their
skills. Focuses describe areas of specialization and
expertise within each skill. If a focus applies to what
a character is doing, it increases the chances of
scoring critical successes when making a skill test.

@ Drives: A character has scores in five drives—

Duty, Faith, Justice, Power, and Truth—ranging
from 4 to 8. These show how strongly a
character believes in these facets of life and
are used as part of a character’s target number
when they make a skill test.

@ Drive Statements: A character’s highest drives

also have statements associated with them.
When a character wishes to use a drive as part
of a skill test, they must check to see if the
statement agrees or conflicts with the action
being taken. If a character’s drives agree with
their actions, they receive bonuses, while if
their drives conflict with their actions, they may
be hindered.

@ Assets: Described fully in Chapter 6: Conflict
and Chapter 7: Assets, a character’s assets
represent the tools and resources they have
at their disposal, which can be invaluable in
overcoming adversity.

S ce n es a n d T r a its
All adventures in Dune: Adventures in the Imperium are broken down into scenes, which the gamemaster is responsible for setting up. Once the gamemaster has set up a scene, the players may take whatever
actions they desire, and once there’s nothing else they can, or wish to, do in that place, the scene ends.
Scenes also include descriptors called traits, which point out anything important about the scene’s time or
place, or the characters or objects within it.

A scene is the basic building block of an adventure, just
like books and movies are broken into scenes. A scene
is a place and time involving a specific set of characters,
in which an exciting or dramatic event occurs, usually
moving the story forward.

move around, talk to other people, or otherwise take
actions. Once you’ve reached a point where you can’t
do anything further toward your goal, or you’ve gained
a new goal that requires you go somewhere else, the
scene ends, and a new one begins.

At the start of a scene, the gamemaster will inform you
where your character is, what’s going on, and anything
else useful or important you should know. There’ll
always be a reason behind this scene, driven by what
happened in the scenes before it: perhaps you came
here because of a clue left by an assassin, or because
you’re looking for a specific person. Once the gamemaster has finished setting the scene, you and your
fellow players can ask questions about the situation and
choose for your characters to do things within the scene:

During a scene, your decisions are important; the
choices you make have an impact upon the world
around your character, and you’ll have to face the consequences of those choices. The gamemaster can shape
the events in a scene, too, by spending Threat and
through the actions of non-player characters, but this is
normally in response to your choices and those of your
fellow players.
For the gamemaster, part of setting up a new scene is
describing the traits which apply to that scene. Traits

describe the notable and interesting details about a
place, time, person, or object, sort of like keywords for
other rules to interact with. Each trait is a single word
or a short phrase that describes a single detail about
the thing it belongs to. A trait is always both true and
important: a trait goes away if it stops being true or
important.
As a player, traits influence the kinds of things your
character can try and do, and how difficult those actions
are, but you can also interact with traits more directly,
adding, removing, or altering the traits in a scene as
your actions change the situation. How you can do this
is explained later in the chapter.

T h e E f f ect o f T r a its
In practice, traits have a simple impact on your character’s actions: if a trait is relevant to an action being
attempted, it makes the action possible or impossible,
or it makes the action easier or harder. Multiple traits
can be applied to a situation at once, whether canceling one another out or adding to one another. Some
especially intense or potent traits may actually be multiple identical traits added together: a battlefield might
be shrouded in Smoke, or visibility might be reduced
by Thick Smoke 2, with the number indicating that it
counts as two traits.
In practice, this is easy to apply. Each trait can be placed
into a simple statement, such as one of those below,
and if that statement makes sense, then it applies. If it
doesn’t make sense, then it doesn’t apply.

@ Because I am [personal trait], this activity is…
@ Because of [situation or location trait], this activity is…
@ Because I have [equipment trait], this activity is…
The end of each of those statements is either ‘easier’,
‘harder’, ‘possible’, or ‘impossible’. At the simplest level,
that’s as far as the gamemaster needs to go with trait: if
the statement ends with ‘easier’, reduce the Difficulty, if
the statement ends with ‘harder’, increase the Difficulty.
If the statement ends with ‘possible’, then the activity
can be attempted while the trait applies, while if it ends
with ‘impossible’, then it can’t be attempted while that
trait applies.
It’s also worth remembering that if a trait makes an
action impossible, that doesn’t necessarily mean you
can never attempt that action: rather, it may mean that
the action is impossible unless you change the situation
to make it possible.
Remember also that assets are also traits. If one can
apply to a scene it works just like any other trait. Having
a knife makes a combat easier than fighting unarmed.
Having blackmail evidence makes an attempt to blackmail a target possible. For the most part, assets (especially in architect play) are what makes the test possible.

Example: Kara Molay, heir to her House, is trying to
negotiate a new trade deal with a spice merchant at
a large social gathering. As the merchant is known as
a fair trader, Kara’s player believes her ‘Honorable’
trait may apply. She tells the gamemaster “Because
Kara is honorable, it will be easier to make a deal
with the merchant.” The gamemaster agrees and
reduces the Difficulty of the test.
As many traits as you like can be added to a scene, but
the gamemaster can veto any they don't believe are
appropriate to the situation, or will do what the player
wants. As traits can be used to cancel each other they
should be brought into play one at a time, giving the
other side the option of playing a trait to counteract
it. This build up of traits to finalize the total modifier of
the action is something that should be played out and
described.
Example: Revisiting the example above this is how
the scene might play out with a more complex interchange of traits.
Kara attends the party to try and speak to the spice
merchant. The gamemaster describes the scene and
gives the scene the trait 'Convivial'. As Kara makes
her approach the gamemaster tells her player that
as Kara doesn't know the spice merchant, he won't
do business with her without a proper introduction.
Kara doesn't have time to try and make another test
to convince someone to make such an introduction.
So Kara asks to invoke the Convivial trait to make
the attempt possible. It's a friendly party, and so the
gamemaster allows Kara to use the trait to approach
informally and introduce herself. In this way the trait
makes the test possible.
The gamemaster then declares the merchant is
'Distrustful 2' upon meeting Kara. Kara can use her
Honourable trait to mitigate this a little and drop Distrustful to just 1. But this means the test to negotiate
is one step more difficult.
Kara wants better odds so decides to use her blackmail evidence asset, making it apply to the merchant.
She whispers a few hints into the conversation and
the merchant goes pale. The Difficulty penalty is
removed.
Kara could leave it there, but might spend Momentum to create another trait to make the upcoming
test easier. She might even bring in her knife as an
asset to physically threaten the merchant, but that
might be a little much! The gamemaster might also
use Threat to add more traits to make things harder
again, such as the merchant having friends or not
being easily frightened.

S k ill T ests
Whenever your character takes action, and there is doubt in the outcome—failure is a possibility, or the
result might depend on how well they succeed—the gamemaster asks you to make a skill test. When you
make a skill test, the gamemaster tells you how difficult the skill test is, expressed as Difficulty.

Select one of your skills and one of your drives and add
their scores together to make a target number. Then,
roll two d20s:

@ Each die that rolls equal to or under that target
number is a success.

@ Each die that rolls a 1 is a critical success, worth two
successes.

If your character has a focus that would help in that
action, then any die that rolls equal to or less than their
skill is a critical success instead. Count your successes,
and if you scored successes equal to or greater than the
Difficulty, your character has passed the skill test and
achieves what they set out to achieve.

D i f f ic u lt y
For many skill tests, as long as you achieve one success
you have succeeded at the action you are attempting.
However, some actions are simply more complex than
others, or can be made more difficult by circumstances.
While it may be a challenge to pick a lock, it is more
of a challenge to do so in the rain, blindfolded with an
enemy agent about to attack you.
When a player asks to make a skill test, the gamemaster
should determine the Difficulty of the task, which is rated
0–5. The player must get at least as many successes on
the skill test result as the Difficulty to achieve the task.
If they fail they may still opt to ‘succeed at a cost’. The

Much of the time, when playing Dune: Adventures
in the Imperium, you simply describe what you
want your character to do, and the gamemaster
decides whether it’s possible and what happens
next. Most actions your character takes should be
so simple that you don’t need to use the rules.

you pass, you get the result you desire; if the skill test
fails, you don’t get that.

@ The skill test is to avoid or resist a danger. In this

@ The action is difficult or dangerous, or both.
@ The action is directly opposed by someone else.
@ The action is simple, but how well you succeed
In these situations, the gamemaster asks you to
make a skill test, following the process described
below.

Both you and the gamemaster should have a clear idea
of what a skill test is for, and what happens if the skill
test succeeds or fails. In general, one of the following is
likely to be true:

@ The skill test is an attempt to achieve something: if

However, there are sometimes actions that aren’t
so simple to resolve. Most commonly, these fall
into one of three categories:

case, a pass means that you avoid some or all the
danger, while failure means that you suffer the full
effects of the danger you sought to avoid.

@ The skill test is to achieve something, but there’s
something at stake as well. If you pass, you get what
you wanted and avoid the consequences, while
failure means that you suffer the consequences
instead, or must choose to face the consequences if
you want to achieve your goal.
The gamemaster should inform you of the potential
outcomes for success or failure before you attempt a skill
test. Your character is assumed to be capable enough to
know the likely outcomes for their actions.

gamemaster should determine the Difficulty as fairly
as possible based of the task at hand. However, the
gamemaster may then spend Threat to increase the set
Difficulty to represent further complications to the task.
The gamemaster may allow a test to be made with a
Difficulty of 0. This sort of test is made when the character cannot really fail, but the quality of their action may
still apply. This might be staking out an enemy facility to
get an idea of the security, scouting out terrain before
a battle, or mingling with the guests of a soiree to pick
up rumours and gossip. As usual, any successes scored
above the Difficulty generate Momentum, and so such
tests can grant a boost to the player’s Momentum pool
before they initiate a conflict, representing their preparations and planning.
In general, the Difficulty should follow the following
guidelines:

SIMPLE (DIFFICULTY 0)

AVERAGE (DIFFICULTY 1)

CHALLENGING (DIFFICULTY 2)

DAUNTING (DIFFICULTY 3)

@ Overcoming a complex lock in a hurry
@ Following a suspicious subject during the day
@ Asking for a difficult favor from someone you already owe
@ Deceiving a deeply suspicious subject
@ Investigating knowledge that has been actively
hidden by a powerful faction

DIRE (DIFFICULTY 4)

EPIC (DIFFICULTY 5)

@ Overcoming a complex lock, in a hurry, without the
right tools, during a battle

When you’re attempting a skill test, the choice is yours
as to which skill and which drive you want to use.
However, this isn’t simply a case of picking the biggest
numbers.
First, select your skill. This should be fairly obvious, as
your skill relates directly to what you’re doing. Usually
the gamemaster determines the skill to be used, but the
player is allowed to suggest alternatives.
When you’ve selected your skill, check to see if any of
your focuses apply to the action. For both skill and focus,
the gamemaster may overrule your choices and suggest
something else, or they may prompt a particular choice in
advance. However, you always get to make a choice and
try to justify why it fits the situation: the choice of skill is
defined by what it is you’re choosing to do.
Second, select your drive. This reflects your character’s
motivation and drive behind the action—why they are
doing what they’re doing. Some of your drives come
with a statement. These describe the most important
aspects of what your character believes, providing both
advantages and limitations. To select which drive to use,
look at the character’s drive statements and pick the one
most appropriate to the situation. This is not necessarily
the most advantageous, as drives can often be a disadvantage in some circumstances. The drive linked to the
drive statement you choose is the one you must use for
the test. If multiple statements are appropriate, choose
which of those drives to use. If none of the statements
apply, choose one of the character’s drives that does not
have a statement to use in the test.
When you wish to use a drive, you must check to see if
the statement agrees with the action.

@ If the drive statement agrees with the action, then
you can use that drive on this skill test. In addition,
you are allowed to spend a point of Determination
(described on p.157) on that skill test if you wish. You
cannot spend Determination if the drive you’re using
has no statement.

@ If the drive statement clashes with the action—the
drive doesn’t support the action, or the action goes
against the drive—then the gamemaster may offer
you a point of Determination and ask you to make a
choice about the drive: either comply with the drive,
or challenge it. If you comply, you suffer an immediate

complication on the action you’re attempting, which
could include being unable to carry out the action. If
you challenge the drive, you can use it in the skill test,
but the statement is crossed out immediately after the
skill test is resolved, and you can’t use that drive until
you’ve recovered it—you now doubt how you feel
about that drive, and can no longer rely on it. If you
don’t want either of those options, you may refuse the
point of Determination and choose a different drive.
If the drive you’re using has no statement, then you may
choose to use it, without restriction. In these cases, the
following guidance may be helpful when determining
which to use:

with her family at this soiree it isn’t quite right. If she
were negotiating for herself and not her House, her
Power statement might be the one to use.
Next, Kara’s player and the gamemaster must decide if
the task is at odds with the drive statement. In this case
it is not, as Kara is negotiating as the heir of her House.
However, had this negotiation been a minor trade issue
that could have been left to an underling, her drive
statement might have been at odds with the task.

CHOOSING DRIVES

It can be difficult to decide which drive is the most
appropriate, but just as difficult to pick when none
of your drive statements seem to fit the situation.
The following guidelines should help you make
that decision.

@ Faith: Does the action rely upon trusting in others, an

If you have exactly the right drive statement...

@ Duty: Does the action relate to your responsibilities

Great! Pick that drive and carry on.

@ Justice: Does the action relate to matters of morality,

If several drive statements suit the action...

@ Power: Does the action rely on you having authority,
status, or power over someone, or does it relate to
your ambitions? Often useful in conflict.

Here you can pick from whichever you prefer (usually the highest), but consider how your character
is deciding to approach the action defined by the
drive you choose. If it feels more ‘in character’ to
pick a lower rated drive, that’s great too.

@ Truth: Does the action seek to uncover secrets, or

If none of the drive statements suit the action...

Tests can also be augmented by the players spending
points of Momentum or Determination, or hindered by
the gamemaster spending points of Threat. A result of
20 creates a complication for the character making the
test. This represents an additional problem, similar to a
trait, that makes further tests harder. We describe how
players and the gamemaster can spend and acquire
these points later in this chapter.
Example: The gamemaster determines that for Kara
to make the trade deal with the spice merchant, she
needs to use her Communicate skill. This is mainly as
they are in an informal setting at a party. Were it a
board room negotiation, Discipline or perhaps even
Battle might have been another option.
Next, Kara’s player looks at her drive statements.
Kara has three statements:

@ Duty: “I am the heir of my House.”
@ Faith: “My family trusts me.”
@ Power: “I get what I want.”
As Kara is negotiating on behalf of her House, her
Duty statement seems the most appropriate. Her
Faith statement might also apply, but as she is not

Sometimes there just isn’t a drive or statement that
fits. In which case, you should choose one of your
two lower drives that don’t have a statement. This
represents the character attaching no real focus to
the task as it doesn’t mean as much to them.
If the most appropriate drive statement is one
that opposes the action...
In this case you can choose to challenge the drive.
The gamemaster may offer a point of Determination. If you take it, you delete the opposing
statement after making the test. The character has
chosen to act against their drives and must rethink
their values. This is a way for you to change your
character’s drives if they are not suiting the way
you are playing them.
If you know what drive seems appropriate but
the statement doesn’t fit...
Here you might comply with the drive and gain a
point of Determination, picking the drive you think
is most appropriate, even though the statement
doesn’t quite fit. Your character considers the
action at odds with their drives, but not enough
to make them question their ideals. They can
continue to make the test and keep their drive
statement but pick up a Complication to represent
how unsettled they are.

S k ill T est P ro ced u re
When attempting a skill test, follow the procedure below:
1. The gamemaster usually selects one skill to be used,
then the player should pick one drive they think is
appropriate, guided by their drive statements. They
may also select an applicable focus if they have one.
These are added together to become the target
number.
2. The gamemaster sets the Difficulty for the skill
test; this is normally between 1 and 5, but it can be
higher. Some skill tests may have a default Difficulty
listed in the rules, but traits, Threat, and other
factors can increase or decrease Difficulties. The Difficulty is the number of successes you must generate
to pass the skill test.
3. The players and gamemaster should also finalize any
traits they are applying (some might be required to
even make it possible) before moving on to roll the
dice.
4. You take two d20s, plus any additional d20s you’ve
bought for this skill test. This is your dice pool for this
skill test. Then, roll your dice pool.

5. Each d20 that rolls equal to or less than the target
number scores a single success. Each die that rolls
a 1 is a critical success, which scores two successes
instead of one.
a. If a focus applies, then each die that rolls equal
to or less than the skill being used scores a critical success.
b. Each die that rolls a 20 causes a complication.
4. If the number of successes scored equals or exceeds
the Difficulty of the skill test, then you have passed. If
the number of successes scored is less than the Difficulty of the skill test, then you have failed.
a. If the number of successes scored is greater
than the Difficulty, each success above the Difficulty becomes a single point of Momentum.
5. The gamemaster describes the outcome of the skill
test, and if the skill test was successful you may
spend Momentum to improve the result further. After
this, the effects of any complications are applied.
Example: Kara’s player and the gamemaster have determined that the test to convince the merchant to make a
deal should be Communicate + Duty, and that Kara can
apply her ‘Diplomacy’ focus to the roll.

The Difficulty would normally be 2, but the gamemaster
reduces this to 1 as Kara has the trait Honorable.

With a Communicate of 6 and a Duty of 7, Kara’s player
must roll 13 (6+7=13) or less to gain a success. Any die
that rolls 6 or less count as two successes, because of the
focus. If no focus applied, Kara’s player would need to roll
a 1 to gain two successes.

While succeeding at most common tasks is a straightforward matter, even the most capable and driven
character cannot succeed at the most challenging
tasks without effort, opportunity, or assistance. To truly
triumph, a character needs to find some other way of
improving the odds.

Kara’s player has 2d20 to roll for the test, and no Momentum yet to buy any more. But as this is an important deal,
she decides to give the gamemaster Threat so she can
add another die, for a dice pool of 3d20.

Players have a number of ways to improve the odds:
buying more d20s to roll, spending Determination, or
getting assistance.

She rolls 5, 14, and 20. The 5 grants two successes,
the 14 grants nothing, and the 20 saddles Kara with a
complication.
As Kara only needed one success (Difficulty 1), the roll is a
success. She also gains 1 point of Momentum for getting
one more success than she needed. The trade deal is
completed in Kara’s favor.
However, there is still a complication. The gamemaster suggests that Kara has been so busy negotiating she has failed
to notice how often the servants have been filling her glass.
She gains the temporary trait ‘Intoxicated’, which might
cause problems if more negotiations must be done.

@ Momentum can be spent to buy additional dice before
a skill test. You can buy up to three d20s for a skill test
after the Difficulty has been declared, but before any
dice are rolled. The first die you purchase for a skill
test costs 1 point of Momentum, the second die costs
2 Momentum, and the third costs 3 Momentum (so
buying an additional 2d20 costs 3 Momentum and an
additional 3d20 costs 6 Momentum).

@ Threat can be generated to buy extra dice instead of
spending Momentum. This works in the same way as
spending Momentum, above, but you may generate
Threat to pay some or all the cost, generating 1 point
of Threat for each point of Momentum you would
have spent.

@ Determination ties into a character’s drive
statements, and has other uses, but it can be used
to improve the odds. If the statement for the drive
you’re using on a skill test supports the action you’re
attempting, you may spend a point of Determination
before rolling to change one of the dice so that it
automatically rolls a 1, or after rolling to re-roll your
entire dice pool. Determination and a character’s
drive statements are discussed above.

@ Assistance is when another character actively assists
your action. The gamemaster may limit how many
characters may assist a given skill test. Each assistant
selects a drive and skill to create a target number of
their own, based on how they are helping, and rolls
1d20 (assistants cannot buy extra dice themselves).
Any successes they generate are added to the skill
test you are attempting, so long as you score at least
one success of your own. Any complications from
anyone involved in the skill test apply to everyone.

Example: Having completed her trade agreement in
principle with the spice merchant, Kara can enjoy the
rest of the party. Unfortunately, she notices that her
old enemy Marcus Tarin, a courtier from a rival House,
is also in attendance. Kara decides to chat with some
of the other guests to see if anyone else knows why
Marcus has arrived and what he plans.
As Marcus wasn’t expected, the gamemaster decides
learning anything is a Difficulty 3 test, not a result Kara’s
player believes she can roll easily on 2d20. Kara has a
point of Momentum from her trade negotiations to buy
another d20, and she decides to give the gamemaster
Threat to get another one. This brings her dice pool up
to 4d20.
While that should be enough, Kara can also enlist the
help of Anna, her handmaiden. Anna sees what she can
learn from the other servants. She makes a skill test of
her own using only 1d20, but any successes she gets
are added to Kara’s total.

Recovering Drives
If any of your character’s drive statements are crossed
out, then they are less certain of their drives, and of
their place in the universe. It takes time, reflection, and
counsel to clear away that uncertainty.

When your character recovers a drive, select a
single drive which has had the statement crossed
out, and do one of the following:

At the end of any scene during which your character
contemplated personal matters or discussed them
with another character, and you did not spend or gain
any Determination during that scene, you may ask the
gamemaster to allow your character to recover a drive.
If you don’t do this during play, it happens automatically between adventures, should no suitable opportunities arise.

for that drive, which should in some way
reflect your character’s changed views and
perspectives.

drive by –1 and choose the drive with the next
lowest score to increase by +1 (so, if you’re
reducing a drive with a score of 6, you would
increase the one which had a score of 5). If
this would mean that the drive is reduced to
less than 6, then it no longer has a statement
(and similarly, any drive increased to 6 gains
a statement). If this doesn’t reduce the drive’s
score to 5, then the statement may remain
unchanged (and no longer crossed-out).

Whichever option is chosen, the drive is now
recovered and may be used freely, though you
cannot challenge a drive which has already been
challenged and recovered during that adventure
(people’s core drives do not change that often).

M o me n t u m
Whenever you score more successes than you needed on a skill test, each extra success becomes Momentum,
which you can spend to improve the outcome of the skill test you’ve just passed. Any Momentum you don’t
spend can be saved, and saved Momentum goes into a group pool for everyone to use. Up to 6 points
of Momentum can be saved like this. Momentum can be used for several things, including getting extra
information about a situation, creating or changing traits in the scene, or buying extra dice for skill tests.

S pe n di n g M o me n t u m
You can spend Momentum to improve the outcome of
a skill test you have passed, such as gaining more information or creating a lasting effect.
After a skill test has passed, the gamemaster describes
what happens. You can then spend Momentum to
improve this outcome, gain other benefits, or generally make the situation better for you and your allies, or
worse for your opponents.
Momentum that you use in this way doesn’t need to
be declared in advance, and each point can be spent
one at a time as needed. For example, if you spend
Momentum to get more information from the gamemaster, you can wait to see what that information
is before you decide what to do with the rest of the
Momentum, so you don’t waste Momentum by using it
unnecessarily.
Unless otherwise noted, each use of Momentum—often
called Momentum spends—can only be used once
on any single skill test. Some uses of Momentum can
be used multiple times, or their effect is ‘per point of
Momentum spent’. These options can be used as many
times as you wish.
Once a skill test has been resolved, any unspent
Momentum is saved into the group pool, as described
below. Momentum that can’t be added to the group
pool—because the group pool is already full, or because
it was bonus Momentum—is lost if it isn’t spent.

The gamemaster replies “Probably”, leaving Kara to
wonder who the target might be—her spice merchant, or even herself! If only she had another point
of Momentum to ask another question...

BONUS MOMENTUM

Some assets and talents grant a character bonus
Momentum to successful skill tests, under specific circumstances. This is added to the amount of Momentum
the character generates when they succeed at a skill
test. Something which grants bonus Momentum may
specify that it can only be used in specific ways.
Bonus Momentum differs from normal Momentum in
that it cannot be saved into the group pool: if it is not
used, then it is lost.

S av i n g M o me n t u m
Saved Momentum goes into a group collection called
the Momentum pool, also referred to as the group
pool. Momentum in this pool can be used by anyone in
the group, representing the benefits of prior successes
and collective effort. The Momentum pool cannot contain more than 6 Momentum points at any time.
Whenever you wish to spend Momentum, you may spend
from the group pool in addition to or instead of any
Momentum you’ve generated yourself on a skill test. As
normal, you don’t have to choose how you’re spending
Momentum in advance, so you don’t need to choose how
much to take from the group pool until after you’ve decided
how to spend it, and you don’t need to spend it all at once.

Example: Kara’s test to learn more about what
Marcus might be up to goes very well, yielding 4
successes. She passes the test and gains 1 point of
Momentum.

At the end of a scene, 1 point of Momentum from the
group pool is lost. Momentum needs to be maintained,
and it does not last forever, so it’s in your interests to
spend it rather than saving it up.

The gamemaster tells her that officially Marcus is
here to make a spice deal, but many suspect he may
have another motive. Kara can spend her bonus
point of Momentum to ask a further question. Fearing Marcus may be looking to offer a deal to the
same spice merchant, she considers asking who he
might be making a deal with. However, she knows
Marcus is also known to be a skilled assassin, so
instead she asks, “Is he here to kill someone?”

TIMING MOMENTUM

The majority of uses of Momentum come immediately
after a successful skill test, to improve the outcome
of that skill test. However, a few important uses for
Momentum happen spontaneously during play. These
options have their own restrictions on how and when
they are used, which is made clear in their text. Buying
extra d20s is the most common example of this.

C o mm o n U ses
You’re encouraged to be creative in your uses of
Momentum. When you pass a skill test and generate
Momentum, think of how your superb performance
might be reflected in the outcome, or how it might influence what happens next.
However, there are a few common Momentum spends
which are key to how the system works and which serve as
examples for what you can do with Momentum.
Regardless of how you use it, Momentum must make a
degree of sense in the story—the benefit you’ve gained
from Momentum must make sense from the perspective of
the characters—and the gamemaster can veto any uses of
Momentum that don’t fit with the story or the scene.

Momentum. This is done before you roll the dice
pool, but after the gamemaster decides on the
Difficulty. The cost increases for each die purchased:
the first die costs 1 point of Momentum, the second
costs 2 Momentum, and the third costs 3. No more
than three bonus d20s may be bought for a single
skill test. As noted in Improving the Odds (p.149),
you may pay for some or all this cost by adding to
Threat instead of spending Momentum.

@ Create a Trait allows you to define a new fact

about the scene or situation. Spending 2 points of
Momentum either creates a brand-new trait, changes
an existing one, or removes one currently in play.
When you create a trait, it must relate to the action
you’ve just attempted, and it must be something that
could reasonably result from that action.

@ Create an Asset works in the same way as creating
a trait, but there are some limitations to the
kinds of assets you can create. An asset created
has a Quality of 0, and it should be useful in the
current type of conflict. Assets created in this
way are temporary and cease to exist at the end
of the scene. Whatever the asset represents is
discarded or ceases to be useful. You may spend
2 Momentum to make an Asset created during a
scene permanent (at Quality 0) in which case it is
added to the list of assets on your character sheet.

the scene and situation. Each point of Momentum
you spend allows you to ask the gamemaster
one question about the current situation. The
gamemaster must answer this question truthfully,
but the answer doesn’t need to be complete: partial
or incomplete answers that leave room for further
questions are more common. The answers must
reflect the skill you’ve used to gain the information,
and it should be something that your character
would be able to determine themselves. “You don’t
know” or “You can’t tell” are valid answers from the
gamemaster, but the gamemaster must refund any
Momentum spent if they give answers like that.

Example: So far, Kara has used Momentum to buy
extra d20s and to Obtain Information by asking about
Marcus' secret mission.
If she had more Momentum she might ask more questions. However, she could still create a new trait such
as ‘Inquisitive’ that might give her a bonus to further
investigations.

C o mplic ati o n s
When you attempt a skill test, any dice which roll a 20 cause a complication. This doesn’t mean you’ve
failed—you can suffer complications and still succeed if you get enough successes—but each complication
does create an extra problem, and may be inconvenient, painful, or embarrassing.

Things don’t always go to plan, and while you may
succeed at what you set out to achieve, there may be
bumps along that road. When you roll a skill test, any
die that rolls a 20 causes a complication, which takes
effect once the skill test has been resolved. Complications don’t stop you from succeeding, but they may
impede your actions later or have other repercussions.
The gamemaster can use a complication to inflict an
immediate problem upon your character or the situation, which should relate in some way to the action
you’ve just performed. This can often create a trait—a
fact about the scene—which hinders or impairs your
actions, by increasing the Difficulty of skill tests or
making some actions impossible. These traits may be
persistent problems, or they may be short-lived, lasting
only long enough to affect the character’s next skill
test.
There are other ways for the gamemaster to use
complications, however. A useful alternative is to
impose some immediate restriction or penalty, limiting a character’s immediate choices by prohibiting an
action they could normally take. A complication might
instead cause an activity to take longer than normal (as
a rule of thumb, each complication increases the time
taken by 50%). In general, a complication can work like
a negative trait. It can stop you from doing something
you would usually be able to, or increase the Difficulty
of an action by 1.
You are not powerless in this situation, though. When
you suffer a complication, you may choose to buy it
off by adding 2 points of Threat to the gamemaster’s
pool—in essence, avoiding a problem now in return
for potential problems later. The gamemaster may also
trade a complication you or another player has rolled for
2 points of Threat if they don’t wish to create an immediate problem or simply can’t think of one right now. If a
non-player character suffers a complication, the gamemaster can buy it off by spending 2 points of Threat.

EXAMPLE COMPLICATIONS

As complications are tied to a specific skill, the following are grouped by skill only to suggest what sort of
tests might result in particular complications.
EXAMPLE BATTLE COMPLICATIONS
@ Bruised: The pain is making it hard to concentrate.
@ Exhausted: I’m too tired to fight.
@ Flanked: I’m in a tactically bad position.
@ Injured: I have suffered an injury to <area>.
@ Stunned: I’m dazed from a strike.
@ Unarmed: I’ve lost my weapon.
EXAMPLE COMMUNICATE COMPLICATIONS
@ Disconnected: I am out of my depth in this social
situation.
@ Gauche: I am showing off my status too much.
@ Inferior: My lack of status has been exposed.
@ Outsider: I don’t really fit in here.
@ Rude: I have caused offense.
@ Tongue-tied: I can’t seem to get the right words out.
EXAMPLE DISCIPLINE COMPLICATIONS
@ Angry: I am too full of rage for anything but action.
@ Conflicted: I am torn between possibilities.
@ Distracted: There is too much going on.
@ Frightened: I can’t deal with this.
@ Intoxicated: I’ve had too much to drink.
@ Unfocused: I can’t seem to concentrate.
EXAMPLE MOVE COMPLICATIONS
@ Awkward: I have no grace or flow of movement.
@ Constricted: There isn’t enough room for me to move.
@ Hurt: An injury is slowing me down.
@ Slow: I can’t move very quickly.
@ Tired: I am feeling too exhausted to run.
@ Uncoordinated: I can’t seem to control my
movements.
EXAMPLE UNDERSTAND COMPLICATIONS
@ Complicated: There are too many connections to
see an answer.
@ Confused: I don’t quite understand what is going on.
@ Misinformed: Some of my data is wrong.
@ Overthinking: The answer just cannot be that
simple.
@ Uninformed: I am missing a vital piece of
information.
@ Vague: I am having trouble thinking.

Example: Kara has already picked up the complication
‘Intoxicated’ that has been adding to the Difficulty of
her tests. As this is a social scene, further complications
would relate to that. She might make a fool of herself
in some way (such as spilling something on the wrong
person) or fail to remember a point of etiquette and
gain further complications like ‘Clumsy’ or ‘Rude’.
If the situation with Marcus becomes physical, she
might gain complications representing wounds, or even
that she has been poisoned.

C o mplic ati o n R a n g e
Some situations can make a skill test uncertain, rather
than more difficult. These factors make it more likely
that complications occur, by increasing the range
of numbers which cause complications. A test has a
complication range of 1 normally, so complications
occur on any die that rolls a 20 (only a 1 in 20 chance
per die). The complication range can never be increased
to more than five, and the effect of changing the
complication range is explained on the table below:
COMP.
RANGE

S u ccess at a C o st
Some skill tests can’t really be failed outright.
Sometimes an action will inevitably succeed, but
there might be problems or consequences along the
way. In these situations, the gamemaster may allow a
skill test to succeed at a cost, either before the dice
have rolled, or after the result is known. If a skill test
succeeds at a cost, then a character who fails a skill
test still achieves their goal in some form, but they also
suffer one or more automatic complications, in addition
to any they’re suffering because of the roll. The
gamemaster determines how many extra complications
are suffered.
Although the failed skill test has produced a successful
outcome, Momentum cannot be spent to improve the
result of a skill test that succeeded at a cost: Momentum can only be spent if a skill test was passed.
The gamemaster may declare that an action succeeds
at a cost, or they may give a player a choice to succeed at a cost. This choice can and should be made on
a case-by-case basis according to the situation.
Example: Kara attempts to make another test to
learn more from the gathering before confronting
Marcus. However, she fails to get the required successes. The gamemaster allows her to succeed at a
cost. For succeeding at the test she learns the spice
merchant is indeed Marcus' target. However, the
cost is that Marcus becomes aware Kara is asking
questions about him and now knows his plan.

T h re at
Where you and the other players have Momentum, the gamemaster has Threat. Threat works much the
same as Momentum, but for your opponents and enemies. Threat can be used for the same things as
Momentum, but the gamemaster can also use Threat to alter situations or the story in a few special ways.
Threat represents perils, unforeseen dangers, and the potential for drama and excitement, and it rises
and falls during play. In addition to this, if you’re low on Momentum, you can buy extra dice by adding to
Threat, essentially taking risks to get an advantage.

As player characters generate and spend Momentum,
the gamemaster generates and spends their own
resource: Threat. The gamemaster makes use of Threat
to alter scenes, empower non-player characters, and
generally make things challenging, perilous, or unpredictable for the player characters. Threat is a method by
which the game, and the gamemaster, builds tension:
the larger the Threat pool, the greater the likelihood
that something endangers or threatens the player characters. In this way, Threat mimics the rise and fall of tension that builds throughout a story, eventually culminating in a high-tension finale. Strictly speaking, characters
don’t know about Threat, but they have a sense of the
stakes of their current situation, and the potential for
things to go wrong.
The gamemaster typically begins each adventure with
two points of Threat for each player present at the start
of the adventure, though this can be adjusted based
on the tone and underlying tension of a given adventure: if the stakes are high, the gamemaster may begin
with more Threat, while a calmer, quieter situation may
reduce the gamemaster’s starting Threat. Part of this is
defined by the size of the player characters’ House: a
powerful House invites challenge and breeds enemies
and rivalries, and this is represented by larger amounts
of starting Threat.

A ddi n g t o T h re at
Player characters can add to the Threat pool in the
following ways:

characters may buy bonus d20s for skill tests
by adding points to Threat instead of spending
Momentum. As normal, no more than three dice
can be bought, and the cost increases for each
dice: the first costs 1, the second costs 2, and the
third costs 3.

@ Complications: Whenever a player character suffers

one or more complications on a skill test, they or the
gamemaster may choose to add two points to the
Threat pool to ignore a complication. This may be
done for as many or as few complications as desired.

may state that a specific action or decision risks
escalating the situation, making it more dangerous or
unpredictable. If a character performs an action that
risks escalation, they immediately add one point of
Threat to the pool.

The gamemaster may add to Threat in the following ways:

@ Threatening Circumstances: The environment or

circumstances of a new scene may be threatening or
perilous enough to warrant adding one or two points
of Threat to the pool automatically. Similarly, some
non-player characters may generate Threat simply by
arriving, in response to changes in the situation, or by
taking certain actions. This also includes activities that
escalate the tensions of the scene, such as non-player
characters raising an alarm.

@ Non-player Character Momentum: Non-player

characters with unspent Momentum cannot save it
as player characters can, as they don’t have a group
Momentum pool. Instead, a non-player character
may add to Threat, adding one point of Threat for
every Momentum they have remaining.

Example: Realizing the stakes have increased, Kara’s
player decides to shake off the Intoxicated complication, adding 2 points of Threat to the gamemaster’s

pool. The gamemaster also decides to add another
point of Threat to their pool, given that Marcus is now
looking to either silence Kara or at least ensure she
doesn’t interfere.

@ Non-player Character Complications: If a non-

@ Traits: The gamemaster may change, remove, or

player character suffers a complication, the
gamemaster may buy off that complication by
spending two points of Threat.

The gamemaster can spend Threat in several common
ways:

create a trait by spending two points of Threat. This
must come naturally from some part of the current
situation.

for a skill test attempted by one of their non-player
characters. The cost of this increases for each die
purchased: the first die costs 1 point of Threat, the
second costs 2 Threat, and the third costs 3. No
more than three bonus d20s may be bought for a
single skill test, regardless of the source.

@ Increase Difficulty: The gamemaster can choose to

make things more difficult for a character, increasing
the Difficulty of a single skill test by one for every 2
points of Threat spent. The decision to increase a skill
test’s Difficulty must be made before any dice are
bought or rolled on that skill test.

@ Non-player Character Threat Spends: When a

player character’s action would normally add points
to Threat, a non-player character performing that
same action, or making the same choice, must spend
an equivalent number of points of Threat.

gamemaster may trigger or cause problems with the
scene or environment by spending Threat.

@ Rival House Action: The gamemaster may spend a

Threat point to introduce a known enemy House to
the situation. It may be one of their agents simply
taking an opportunity to attack the player characters,
or it may turn out that they have an alliance with
whomever the player characters are dealing with.
Either way, the House makes an appearance in
some way to complicate the situation for the player
characters.

Example: As the situation is heating up, the gamemaster decides to spend some of their Threat. They decide
that Marcus has a lot of friends at the party who have
become irked at Kara’s questioning. The gamemaster
spends a point of Threat to add the environmental
effect ‘Hostile Room’.

D etermi n ati o n
Determination is a special, scarce resource which you can spend on skill tests which align with your
character’s drives. It is earned when a character’s drives impede or hinder their actions. You can spend
Determination before rolling to set a die so that it counts as having rolled a 1, or after rolling to re-roll an
entire dice pool, or to create, destroy, or change a trait, or to take extra actions in a conflict.

A character’s drives are a vital part of their successes
and their failures. Conviction and clarity of purpose, and
a potent sense of self, are key parts of why a character takes the actions they do. To this end, all player
characters, and many non-player characters, have drive
statements which reflect the character’s personal values
and guiding principles. When a character’s actions align
with these principles, they can be spurred on to greater
heights of success, but when a character attempts
actions which clash with their values, it can cause them
considerable problems.
At the start of each adventure, you have a single
point of Determination for your character, but you
may gain more during play. You may never have
more than three Determination at once.
When you attempt a skill test, and the drive you are
using has a drive statement, both you and the gamemaster should consider whether the statement and the
action you’re attempting align. If the statement supports the action—that is, if the statement would be an
advantage to the action being attempted—then you can
use that drive freely for that action, and you may spend
a point of Determination to gain one of the following
benefits. Some talents or other character abilities may
grant them additional ways to use Determination.

trait, or change or remove an existing one; this
must relate to your character, but it may represent
something which was always true, but which has
only now been revealed or become important. You
may retroactively describe how this trait came to be.

@ Extra Action: In a conflict, immediately take an

additional action after this one, even if you have
already kept the initiative.

@ If you comply with your drive, then you immediately

suffer a complication (which may often make the
action harder or prevent you from even attempting the
action). The character’s drives are too strong to allow
them to carry out this action freely, causing a problem.

@ If you challenge your drive, then you may act freely,

but you must cross out that drive statement, and you
may not use that drive score again until it has been
recovered (see below). The character’s need to act
has outweighed their strongly held drives, and in the
process, their worldview has been shaken.

You may refuse to accept the offered Determination
to avoid making the choice, but if you do so, you must
choose a different drive to use for the skill test. You may
also suggest to the gamemaster moments where your
drives may conflict with your actions, though both you
and the gamemaster must agree for this to happen.

T h at ’ s a L o t o f
Different Points
Momentum, Threat, and Determination have a
variety of different effects, and it might seem like
a lot of points to keep track of as you make rolls.

d20s in your dice pool: that die is considered to
have rolled a 1, and does not need to be rolled. It
thus scores a critical success automatically.

spiritual drives, or sense of honor—then the gamemaster can offer you a point of Determination to give you a
choice: comply or challenge.

But in the 2d20 system, how you spend these
points is often far more important than what dice
you roll. They grant both players and gamemaster a lot of control over their dice and represent
the characters marshalling their resources before
making their play. This makes knowing what to
spend on which test an important skill to master.
Do you put everything into the current test or save
something for later? How important is it to succeed, and can you afford the cost? All these factors
must be decided before you roll anything. This
means any roll of the dice is a carefully considered
plan of action, never just the whim of fate.

However, if the statement would conflict with the
action—it may impair your character’s judgment, make
them biased, blind them to possibilities, or it may be
that the action goes against your character’s morals,

C o n tests

In a contest, the character opposing you rolls first, and
their number of successes becomes the Difficulty you
need to roll against. Once they’ve rolled, you roll to see
if you can beat them.

When the actions you want to attempt are actively
opposed by another, a skill test becomes a contest. In a
contest, the opposing character first rolls to set the Difficulty. They gather a dice pool, rolling against their own
target number as if they were attempting a skill test. The
total number of successes they score becomes the Difficulty for your skill test.
At this point, you make your skill test as normal, rolling
against that Difficulty.
If you succeed, then you achieve your desired goal, and
can spend any Momentum you generate to improve
that outcome as normal. If you fail, the opposing character generates 1 point of Momentum for each success
fewer than the Difficulty which you scored—i.e., if the
Difficulty was 4, and you scored two successes, the
opposing character would get 2 points of Momentum—
and they may spend this Momentum immediately, as if
they had succeeded at a skill test.
After all this has been resolved, any complications suffered by either side are handled by the gamemaster.
Example: Given that Marcus is a highly skilled assassin, Kara cannot let him get close to the spice trader,
who is chatting amiably nearby to another noble,
utterly unaware of the danger he is in. She could
try and physically confront Marcus but that may go
poorly. However, she might be able to intimidate him
into leaving, given that she knows his intentions and
has a vested interest in keeping the spice trader alive.
Kara finds a quiet part of the ballroom to take
Marcus aside. Luckily, he makes no attempt to avoid
a confrontation as he wants to know what Kara is up
to. Kara explains that she knows his plan and tells
him that the spice trader is under her protection, as
they have a deal. Assassinating him may start a new
conflict between their Houses.
This is a Communicate test, with Kara using her
Power drive with the statement ‘I get what I want’.
As this challenge is very much in line with her drive
statement, the gamemaster allows Kara’s player to
spend Determination on the test.
The gamemaster rolls for Marcus first to set the stakes,
as he is the defending party. The gamemaster spends
some Threat and manages to get 4 successes. This
means Kara needs to roll 4 successes to win the contest.
Kara must overcome the additional Difficulty of a
hostile environment, as Marcus knows he has several

allies to back him up. This raises the Difficulty to 5,
but luckily Kara has bought off her complication so it
doesn’t get any worse.
However, she needs to call upon all her resources. She
gives the gamemaster enough Threat to buy 2 more
dice and brings her handmaiden Anna in to support
her with assistance. This gives her a dice pool of 4 with
bonus successes if Anna rolls well with her single die.
The roll is not very good, yielding 2 successes, not
nearly enough. As the stakes are high, Kara’s player
opts to spend her Determination to re-roll some of the
dice. Two of her dice offered a success each, and while
she could re-roll those in the hope of getting a better
result, she decides not to risk it. She re-rolls the two
other dice, the ones that yielded no successes. Anna’s
assistance roll was also a failure, but as it isn’t part of
Kara’s dice pool it cannot be re-rolled with the Determination spend.
Thankfully, the two re-rolled dice both come up a
success, and one of them even rolls a 1. This adds
another 3 successes to the existing 2, taking the total
to the five successes required.
Marcus takes a moment to weigh up his options. He
decides that the risk of a House on House conflict is not
what his masters are interested in. He chooses to take
Kara seriously and withdraws to confer with his superiors. With a small bow he smiles at Kara and tells her he
looks forward to their next encounter, then leaves.

EXTERNAL FACTORS IN CONTESTS

The procedure for contests assumes that both sides are
on roughly equal footing, and that neither side has any
real advantages or hindrances beyond their own abilities. This isn’t always the case.
If the opposing character has any factors—such as
traits—which would make things harder for them, each
such factor reduces the Difficulty they set by 1, to a
minimum of 0. In essence, fewer of their successes
translate into Difficulty for their opponent.
If the active character has any factors which would affect
the Difficulty of their action other than the opposing character, then adjust the final Difficulty up or down as normal.
In either case, characters in a contest may accept assistance from other characters on their side.
Example: In Kara and Marcus' contest the environment was working to Marcus' advantage. Had they
been among Kara’s allies the circumstances would
have been different. Had time been a factor for either
party, that too could have made their position trickier.

Some activities may take a while to complete, requiring
ongoing effort over a prolonged period. This is especially
useful when an ongoing action can be interrupted or
cannot be completed all in one go.

These extended tasks occur entirely at the gamemaster’s
discretion and can be used for a wide range of situations. When the gamemaster decides that a situation is an
extended task—and this can be something caused during
play, perhaps by spending Threat point or because of a
complication—they choose how big the extended task
is. This is called the requirement. Each passed skill test
made toward completing an extended task scores one
or more points, and when a total number of points have
been scored equal to the requirement, then the extended
task is complete, and whatever event or activity the task
represented is resolved.
As a rule of thumb, each passed skill test should score 2
points towards the requirement, which can be reduced by
complications and increased by spending Momentum. If
an extended task is based on overcoming something set in
place by an opponent, then using one of their skill ratings
is a good basis for the task’s requirement. In either case,
appropriate traits may increase these scores further. If an
asset has a Quality rating of 1 or above, this also adds to
the points scored towards the requirement.
Extended tasks can also be presented from the opposite
direction to represent impending problems, with failed skill
tests, complications, or perilous actions adding points, and
the problem occurring when the requirement is met. Situations may have both an extended task for you to work toward,
and one representing a problem, with one or other increasing
depending on whether skill tests were passed or not.

Example: Her behavior at the party has not done
Kara’s reputation any good. She has upset a few of
the guests with her questions, and possibly embarrassed herself by drinking too much. She also clearly
had a conflict of some form with Marcus, who has
many friends at the gathering. Kara’s player asks
the gamemaster if there is anything Kara can do
to repair her reputation, so it doesn’t suffer any
damage when people talk of how the evening went.
The gamemaster decides this is an extended task,
with a requirement of 5 to settle any of the other
guests’ ruffled feathers. However, the party will
eventually end, meaning Kara has a limited amount
of time to perform the task.
The gamemaster decides Kara can only make three
rolls before the party ends—there’s only so much
effort she can make to fix this. The first test makes
decent progress, succeeding and scoring 2 points
toward the requirement. On the second test, she
struggles to assuage the partygoers’ concerns, succeeding but suffering a complication, which means
she only scores 1 point. On the third attempt, she
succeeds—scoring the last two points she needed—
and even generates some Momentum, which she
saves for later, as it’s not needed here. While it
takes her the rest of the night, she manages to
talk to all the guests and assure them that Marcus
simply felt ill and had to retire. While it is exhausting, she finally leaves the party having made a new
deal, beaten a deadly enemy, and maintained the
reputation of herself and her House. All in all, quite
a good evening.

onflict is inevitable in the Imperium. The
interplay of wealth, power, influence, politics, greed, and ambition that forms most
interactions between the Houses of the
Landsraad, CHOAM, the Imperial Court,
the Spacing Guild, the Bene Gesserit, and other factions, breeds strife and turmoil. This creates opportunities to exploit and crises to overcome, and the fortunes
of any House, or any person, rise and fall with how they
face the conflicts ahead of them.

Conflicts add an additional layer to gameplay, and are
used to provide greater detail to specific situations
when desired. This does mean they add more complexity to the game, so they should be used sparingly and
only in situations where the benefits of including them
outweigh the extra effort involved.
Conflict covers a multitude of different forms of contest,
from physical fights to intrigue and assassination. These
rules assume a few concepts that differ from many other
roleplaying games, and allow us to use the same system
to cover a multitude of conflict styles.

@ Conflict is not just physical combat, and any method
to defeat an enemy with any tool can be a conflict.

@ The ability and skill of each combatant is more
important than the actual weapons used. A knife kills
as well as a sword, although different weapons can
provoke different advantages in different situations.
These advantages are managed by applying traits.

@ Each test in a conflict is an encounter and an exchange
of blows or political moves, and does not represent a
single thrust of a blade. Conflict is swift and deadly, in
some cases resolved with a single dice test.

@ Assets are often essential to allow the conflict to occur
at all. While a fighter might choose to engage a foe
unarmed, it is impossible to blackmail someone without
something to blackmail them with. So, an asset or trait
may often be required to make the conflict possible.

@ Conflicts do not need to cause wounds or physically
hurt a target. Many things might lead to their defeat,
such as exhaustion, lack of resources, or losing allies
or the respect of their peers. An enemy can be
defeated without a drop of blood being shed.

@ Complications suffered during a conflict represent actual
hurt combatants suffer. They make winning more difficult
but who got hurt the most doesn't define victory.

C o n f lict S c o pe
Conflicts take many different forms, and they can
occur on many different scales. The following forms of
common conflict are discussed in more detail in these
rules. But new forms of conflict can easily be initiated
with the general system:

@ Dueling is physical conflict between individuals,

using hand-held weapons like swords and daggers,
envenomed needles, and similar close-quarters
tools. Personal shields—either full-body or partial—
are common in dueling, making ranged weapons
mostly ineffective, and lasguns of any kind a
desperate proposition. Dueling can take the form
of formalized dueling, assassination attempts,
gladiatorial bouts, and one-on-one combat.

a similar range of tools, but involve a handful of
combatants on each side. A skirmish may make use
of ranged weapons in a way that dueling does not,
particularly if the conflict starts when attempting to
ambush unshielded foes. Skirmishes still take place
over a relatively short range, but are close enough
that a swordmaster is still able to put their prowess
to good use.

involving groups of armed personnel such as House
troops, mercenaries, or even the Emperor’s deadly
Sardaukar. Outright warfare between Major Houses
is rare and highly regulated, in part because most
factions must rely on the Spacing Guild to move
anything from world to world, and the Guild may
refuse to support actions that they do not regard
as worthwhile. Amongst the Minor Houses on a
single world, however, warfare may be as common
or uncommon as the ruling Major House allows—
some Major Houses encourage strife between their
subordinates to weed out the weak, while others
prefer different methods of resolving tensions.

@ Espionage is conflict relying on stealth and

deception to gain access to a secure location or
important person, normally to obtain information,
steal valuable items, or perform assassinations.
Espionage can easily turn into another form of
conflict if performed poorly, but it can also negate
the need for other, more overt forms of conflict if
performed well. Espionage is primarily performed
by spies, informants, and surveillance devices,
and countered by guards, security systems,
and methods of ensuring loyalty or rooting out
deception, such as Truthsayers. Mentats, and Bene
Gesserit sisters are often exceptionally valuable in
both espionage and counterespionage.

@ Intrigue is social conflict where secrets and individual
agendas are most prominent. Participants often seek
to discover what others know or what they desire,
while keeping their own goals and their own secrets
hidden. Intrigue can take place over a long period of
time, or it can be focused on a single localized event.
It occurs most regularly where society’s expectations
and cultural taboos would prevent more overt forms
of conflict. Intrigue often overlaps with espionage.
Achieving goals through intrigue and influence is
often regarded as ‘soft power’, as a counterpoint
to the ‘hard power’ of direct authority, force, and
military might.

Each of these forms of conflict are described in more
detail in their own sections, later in this chapter.

All conflicts have similarities. At their core, conflicts arise
when two or more opposing parties have goals which
are at odds with one another, and the conflict itself
occurs as a means to resolve that tension. Each side in a
conflict has a collection of tools and resources—collectively referred to as assets—which they can employ. It
isn’t enough to merely a have a tool, however: one must
be able to wield it effectively, maneuvering their own
assets to harm their opponents or protect themselves
from their opponents’ actions.
This section describes the ways that conflicts in Dune
are similar. Later sections describe the specifics of how
these common elements differ (often in just a narrative
sense) in different types of conflict.

A ssets
Conflict revolves around the use of assets. An asset is
anything which a character possesses or controls which
they can use to protect themselves, overcome others, or
otherwise achieve their goals. Each asset is useful in different circumstances, and can be used in a variety of ways:
a company of House troops can be used during warfare
to attack or defend, but they can also be used as guards
to prevent infiltration during espionage, or in a parade to
honor or awe a guest during negotiations or intrigue.
Assets are, by themselves, a form of trait, though specific
assets may have additional rules associated with them in
some contexts, such as to describe the destructive interaction between a lasgun and a shield. Each asset also
notes the type or types of conflict they are most suited
for. This is not a restriction, so much as a prompt: using
an asset in an unconventional way in a type of conflict it
isn’t normally used for might be a winning strategy, but
that sort of creativity is left to the gamemaster to resolve.
Assets broadly come in two forms: tangible and intangible.
A tangible asset is one that has a physical presence,
and which has a degree of permanence to it: a weapon
is a tangible asset, as is a unit of troops, a surveillance
system, or a quantity of material goods. Tangible assets
are normally owned by individual characters or by the
House. They’re difficult to remove from play, and they
are normally only removed temporarily.
An intangible asset is one that has no physical presence: a bribed guard, the leverage from having other
potential trading partners, the mistaken drive of a foe
fed false information, or newly obtained knowledge
about a rival’s weaknesses. Intangible assets are created
by individual characters during play… but they’re also
easier to remove from play than tangible assets.
Assets also have a Quality, normally rated from 0 to 4.
Most assets have a Quality of 0, with only special or elite

versions offering a bonus. The higher an asset’s Quality,
the more effective or impactful it is compared to other
assets of a similar kind. A Fremen crysknife is more potent
than a simple footpad’s knife, elite professional soldiers are
superior to an equivalent number of ill-trained conscripts,
etc. Quality gives a guide to the quality of an asset among
its peers, not compared to other assets. Quality is used in
a few ways, described later in this chapter.
Example: Kara Molay has three personal assets: a
concealable knife, her personal ornithopter, and
some as-of-yet undetermined blackmail evidence.
The knife and ornithopter are tangible assets, and
the blackmail evidence is intangible. They are all
Quality 0 but any of them might be upgraded with
more study, honing, or skill. These are just her most
useful possessions, though. She has access to all
manner of other specialized equipment her House
can provide, and as for normal items, no one in the
Imperium is ever very far away from a knife.

Z o n es o f C o n f lict
When a conflict begins, the gamemaster defines the area
within which the conflict takes place. This may be a physical
area or an abstract representation of the conflict, but in
either case, it is divided into distinct zones, within which
characters can move and use their assets. Zones can be
any size or shape. A contest between two merchants might
use two zones, each being a whole planet. A fight between
some assassins in an alley might be a single zone, or even
six different zones denoting different parts of the alley.
How these zones relate to one another (including how
they’re connected and how characters and assets move
around them) is determined by the gamemaster as well.
(More guidance accompanies each different style of
conflict. Where possible, conflict involving dueling, skirmishes, warfare, and espionage should have clear links
between zones, while negotiations and intrigue should
have most/all zones ‘free-floating’ where they all count
as adjacent to everything else.)
Some zones may have special effects (usually traits)
which apply to assets or characters within them, or
which are regarded as more or less important than
others; a skirmish may have a zone which is full of hindering obstacles that make it harder to move, while a
warfare conflict may denote particular zones as objectives which each side is eager to secure.
Sometimes a conflict might only occur in one zone. This
might be because the area is small, or all the participants are forced into a more rigidly defined area. If your
group finds zones confusing, it is perfectly permissible
to place the conflict in a single zone until everyone is
more comfortable with the rules of conflict.

A cti o n O rder
During a conflict, characters perform actions in a specific
order. Each character takes a turn, during which they
may take an action. Once each character in the conflict
has taken a turn, a single round is completed, and a new
round begins. This repeats until the conflict is concluded.
At the start of the first round, the gamemaster selects
which character takes the first turn. This is normally a
player character, unless there is a compelling narrative
reason for a non-player character to take the first turn,
or the gamemaster spends 2 points of Threat.
Once a character has finished their turn, they may do
one of the following: either allow an opposing side
to choose someone to act next, or spend 2 points of
Momentum (or add 2 to Threat) to Keep the Initiative
(enemy non-player characters may spend 2 points of
Threat to do this). If they Keep the Initiative, then that
character may take an extra action immediately, adding
+1 Difficulty to any test they attempt, or allow an allied
character to take a turn before handing over to an
opposing side. Once a side has chosen to Keep the
Initiative, they may not do so again until at least one
enemy character has taken a turn of their own.
Each time a new character is chosen to act, the character chosen must be someone who has not yet taken a

turn during the current round. If there are no characters
left on a side who haven’t yet taken a turn, that side
must pass and immediately nominate another opposing side. If only one side has characters remaining to
act, then they each take a turn in sequence until all
characters have taken a turn.
Once all characters have taken a turn, the round ends.
The character who acted last must either nominate an
opposing side to take the first turn in the next round,
or spend 2 points of Momentum/add 2 to Threat (nonplayer characters spend 2 Threat) to allow their side to
take the first turn next round.
Example: Kara and her friend Nasir are set upon by
two assassins. As it is an ambush, the assassins start
with the initiative. One of them makes an attack,
and then the initiative passes to Kara and Nasir. The
players decide Kara should be the one to act, and
after she attacks, the initiative passes to the assassins. One assassin has already acted, so the other
one must be the one to take a turn this time. However, before passing the initiative over, Kara and
Nasir spend Momentum to Keep the Initiative. This
allows Nasir to take an attack. But if they cannot fell
the assassins, the remaining one can still take a turn
before the round ends.

You may choose one of the assets you control and use it to
achieve some other goal. You must declare what you are
doing with the asset, and what effect you wish your action
to have.

Move

Common examples of ways to use an asset include, but
are not limited to:

You move one of your assets (or your character, in some
cases) from its current location to any adjacent zone. You
may spend 2 points of Momentum to move your chosen
asset one additional zone, or to choose a second asset to
move one zone.
When you move, you gain an additional benefit, but there
is a risk to this. You may attempt to move in a subtle way,
trying to avoid attention, or you may move in a bold manner
that provokes a response. In either case, this requires a skill
test, with a Difficulty of 2. If you pass the skill test, you gain
an additional benefit, listed below.

@ If you move an asset subtly, your subtlety limits your
opponents’ ability to respond. If you pass, then you
move your asset, and you reduce the cost to Keep
the Initiative to 0: your subtlety allows you to act
again before your enemy can react.

@ If you move an asset boldly, you provoke a hasty

response from your opponent. If you pass, then you
move your asset, and then you may move one of an
opposing character’s assets: your daring ploy has
provoked a reaction, just as you planned.

In either case, if you fail, you may not spend Momentum
on additional movement, and one enemy may move a
single asset one zone, as they react to your failed ploy.
Further, if you fail, you may not Keep the Initiative.
Example: Kara and Nasir are both flying ornithopters
to a secret facility run by their enemy, House Arcuri.
As several security measures are in play, infiltrating the
base becomes an espionage conflict. The gamemaster
has divided the facility and its surroundings into zones
that Kara and Nasir's ornithopters need to move into.
Kara goes first and moves subtly. She makes a successful test and moves her ornithopter into the next zone,
but it is a zone occupied by an enemy ‘thopter. She
pays the cheaper price to Keep the Initiative, allowing
Nasir to take an action before the enemy pilot.
Nasir moves boldly, flying close enough to get the
attention of the enemy pilot. Nasir can move to another
zone, but also moves the enemy ornithopter in Kara's
zone to a different one. The enemy pilot takes the bait,
following Nasir's ornithopter as Kara flies low toward
the facility, unseen.

When you take your turn, you may take a single action, to
either move an asset or use an asset. You are welcome
to suggest actions which aren’t covered below, and the
gamemaster determines how to resolve them (often by
selecting which action is closest to what you’ve suggested
and using it as a baseline).

@ Attacking an opponent with the intent of harming or

defeating them (see Attacks, Defeat, and Recovery).

@ Attempting to remove an opponent’s asset from play.
@ Attempting to create a new trait for the scene, or a
new asset for your character or an ally.

@ Attempting to overcome an obstacle in the environment.
@ Attempting to gain information about the situation.
@ Attempting to remove a trait or similar complication
from an ally, or to aid a defeated ally.
Regardless of the desired outcome, this action always
requires a skill test. If you pass the test, then you get the
desired effect. If you fail, then the action you’ve attempted
is prevented, and you may not Keep the Initiative.
Actions which directly affect a specific opponent are
contests rather than skill tests: the opponent gets to
resist the action taken against them. The final Difficulty of
a contest is influenced by the assets the defender has.
Some outcomes may not be possible to achieve in a
single action. These turn into extended tasks, where
the character makes progress toward their goal bit
by bit over several actions. The requirement for the
extended test is usually based on the defender's skill.
The number of points made toward the requirement of
the extended task is equal to 2 plus the Quality of the
asset used: more potent assets make progress faster.
Remember that assets are simply additional traits you
can use to modify the situation. However, in some cases
they may be required to allow the conflict to occur at all.
Example: Nasir has an enemy pilot on his tail in the
same zone, and he needs to defeat that pilot to
escape. Flying in different vehicles makes it impossible for Nasir to take any action against the pilot
himself. So, he must first declare he is using his
ornithopter asset to make the conflict between them
possible. The enemy pilot uses his ornithopter asset
to make a defense possible.
Nasir may be able to apply other traits, just like any
other contest, to get a better Difficulty rating. But
having used his ornithopter to initiate the conflict, it
cannot also adjust the Difficulty.

C o n f lict O v erv iew
Here is a high-level summary of how to make an attack…
1. Choose an asset to use in the attack.
2. Based on the type of attack you are making, choose an appropriate skill and drive, as well as a focus if one applies.
3. Roll your contest against the target.
a. If you win the contest, your attack is successful.
b. If you lose the contest, your attack fails.
4. On a successful attack, the outcome depends on your target.
a. If your foe is a minor character, they are defeated.
b. Otherwise, defeating the foe is an extended task with a requirement equal to the foe’s most
appropriate skill. Each successful attack scores points equal to 2 plus the Quality of their asset. Once
the task’s requirement has been reached, the foe is defeated.

Nasir also has a personal shield, but the gamemaster
tells him that won't be any use if his ornithopter is forced
out of the sky. He might also create the trait ‘Clear Skies’
for the environment, but as that helps the enemy pilot as
well the advantages cancel each other out.
Having declared all the traits they wish to use, Nasir
and the enemy pilot make an opposed test against
each other. Nasir gains a success and so defeats his
opponent. In this case he describes forcing the other
ornithopter out of the sky with some clever flying.

ATTACKS, DEFEAT, AND RECOVERY

A common choice in conflicts, characters may attempt
to defeat their opponents in order to remove those
opponents from the conflict. Any action where the goal
is to defeat an opponent is classified as an attack, and
defeated opponents are no longer able to participate in
that conflict: they may be injured or even dead, they may
have been forced out of a social gathering, or they’re
otherwise incapable of continuing to affect the conflict.
Example: Having taken out an enemy ornithopter,
Nasir is feeling confident, until he notices a cannon
turret activating and taking aim at him. The turret
is an asset that was already in the zone Nasir has
entered, so now the gamemaster decides to use it.

Making an attack is always a contest, because it affects
another character. The type of contest, and the skill and
assets involved, can differ depending on what kind of
conflict you’re engaging in (personal, espionage, etc.),
as well as the circumstances of that conflict. For example, a skirmish normally involves the Battle skill and a
melee weapon, while an intrigue interaction might use
the Communicate skill and a blackmail asset. (Examples
of appropriate contests appear in each combat type section later in this chapter.)
CONTEST RESULTS
If you win the contest, then you successfully attack the
enemy—see Successful Attack Outcomes, following.
If you lose the contest, then your attack has failed, and
the action ends. You may not Keep the Initiative after
failing. Regardless of the result, complications may allow
the enemy to gain an advantage over you, like opening
you up for a counterattack.
SUCCESSFUL ATTACK OUTCOMES
@ If the attack is against a minor non-player character or
minor supporting character, then a successful attack
against them means they are defeated.

@ If the attack is against a notable or major non-player

The gamemaster makes an attack with the turret against
Nasir in the ornithopter and wins the opposed test. This
would defeat a minor character, but Nasir is far more
than that! So, the test must be an extended test, which
in this case has a requirement of 4. The cannon turret is
a powerful asset with a Quality of 1, so the gamemaster
scores a total of 3 of the 4 points they need, leaving only
1 left. Another hit, and Nasir will be blown out of the sky!

character, a notable supporting character, or a main
player character—or if the target is a military asset in
a warfare conflict—then defeating the character is an
extended task, with a requirement equal to the most
appropriate skill of the character. Each successful
attack scores points equal to 2 plus the Quality of the
asset used; you may spend 2 points of Momentum to
increase the Quality of the asset by +1 for that attack
only. Once the task’s requirement has been reached,
the character is defeated.

As noted above, a defeated character can no longer
take part in the scene, at least until they’ve had an
opportunity to recover. This may require time, action
from allies (see below), a specific condition being met
(such as restoring a tarnished reputation after a social
defeat), or some combination of the three.
Some defeats may be impossible to fully recover from,
such as serious debilitating injuries or death—though
permanent defeats for player characters should be rare,
as anyone as significant as a player character is likely
to be captured, to ransom or subvert, since they’re too
valuable to simply kill. Defeats with a long-lasting effect
may add new traits to player characters, at the gamemaster’s discretion, reflecting permanent effects from
injury, disgrace, or similar. If you want to inflict a lasting injury on an opponent, spend 2 points of Momentum after the attack which defeats that opponent.

DEFENSIVE ASSETS

The attacker’s final Difficulty increases by +1 for each
defensive asset in the target’s zone. Essentially, a
defensive asset is a trait that can be used to increase the
Difficulty of any attack to that zone. With the attacker

Some characters are harder to overcome than
others, possessing a limited ability to fend off the
attacks—literal or figurative—that would lay them
low. This kind of desperate, last-ditch survival
cannot be achieved often, and it always comes at a
price: something lost, something suffered, or some
advantage given to the enemy.
All player characters have this option, as do all
notable and major non-player characters, and all
notable supporting characters.
Once per scene, if your character would be
defeated, you may choose to Resist Defeat.
Resisting defeat prevents that defeat from occurring—your character remains active in the scene.
When you choose to Resist Defeat, it costs 1
point of Momentum, or adds 1 to Threat, and
causes you to suffer a complication (non-player
characters opposing the players spend Threat
instead). This complication could cause the loss
of one of your assets, an advantage the enemy
has gained over you, or some hindrance suffered
avoiding the defeat.
The amount of Momentum or Threat spent to
Resist Defeat increases by an amount equal to the
Quality of the asset used to cause that defeat; it’s
harder to avoid an injury caused by a poisoned
dagger than some ruffian’s blade. The attacker
inflicting the defeat can increase this cost further
by spending Momentum.

doing the work of initiating the conflict, this is simply the
best use of a defensive asset.
In many cases a defensive asset cannot move. Armor is
worn on one part of the body, shields cover the whole
body (for the most part). Defenses are set up and remain
where they are to protect a zone. However, a few defensive assets can be moved as a more active defense. A
half shield can be moved to keep the protected side
towards the attacker. A knife can be used to parry and
is therefore treated like a defensive asset if in the same
zone as an attacking one.
The Quality rating of a defensive asset should be added
to the requirement of the extended test to defeat the
wielder. For this reason, attacking and removing defensive assets from an opponent can be a vital tactic.

TARGETING ASSETS

Denying assets to the enemy is a key element of conflict—the fewer assets they have, the harder it is for them
to attack you or defend against your attacks—so targeting assets is likely to be a common choice of action.
First, select the asset you wish to target. Then describe
how you are trying to remove that asset from play, and
make a skill test. Typically speaking, targeting an asset
is a skill test with a Difficulty of 2. If the asset is being
wielded directly by a character—as in, it is an object in
their hands—then it is a contest instead.
If the test is passed, then the outcome depends on what
kind of asset has been targeted. An intangible asset is
destroyed. A tangible asset is set aside, unable to be
used by their owner, but continuing to exist; that asset
can be recovered as an action, or at the end of the scene.

CREATING A TRAIT OR ASSET

It’s likely that you’ll seek to try and shift circumstances
in your favor during a conflict. This may come about
by establishing new facts and details about the current scene or environment, by creating a trait, or by
obtaining or revealing a new tool or resource at your
disposal by creating an asset.
If you wish to create a trait, describe the sort of
effect you want, and how you wish to create it. Then,
attempt a skill test with a Difficulty of 2. If you pass,
then you’ve managed to create the desired trait.
Creating an asset works in the same way, but there
are some limitations to the kinds of assets you can
create. A created asset has a Quality of 0, and it
should be useful in the current type of conflict. This
can be an intangible asset, such as advantageous
positioning in a skirmish or duel, additional preparations, useful information, or some other non-physical
benefit. Alternatively, it could be a tangible asset,
but this must be something that your character could
reasonably have concealed from everyone else (and

WHAT IF I DON'T HAVE AN ASSET?

you’re revealing it now), or something which you
could find in the scene.
Assets created in this way are temporary and cease
to exist at the end of the scene; whatever the asset
represents is discarded or ceases to be useful. You may
spend 2 points of Momentum to make an asset created
during a scene permanent, in which case it is added to
the list of assets on your character sheet.
Example: While Nasir is maintaining a distraction,
Kara has landed and entered the facility. But upon
seeing Nasir is in trouble, she decides to try and
neutralize the cannon turret. As she is some distance away, she needs some sort of asset to do so.
Kara’s player spends Momentum and makes a test
to create a new intangible asset of ‘security access’.
Kara's player narrates her sneaking up on one of the
House Arcuri technicians and stealing his uniform
and access pass.

Assets are not only useful, they can be vital. But
they are not always essential. Like any trait, they
can grant options you wouldn't normally have or
make a task much easier. The right tools for the
right job. But unless you need one to allow the
test, their use is optional, and there are many other
traits and talents that might allow a character to
perform an otherwise impossible action. Hyperawareness, for instance, allows a character to see
the minutiae others miss, making certain advanced
observation tests possible. It is important to
remember that assets are just one weapon in any
character's arsenal. In themselves they are only a
potential key to power; opening the door is more
about how they are applied and wielded.

Moving the asset (subtly) into the same zone as the
cannon turret represents Kara finding the right control
system. Keeping the Initiative, Kara then uses the
asset to make an attack on the cannon turret, accessing its controls to overload it. She makes a successful
test and the cannon turret explodes in a ball of flame.

A conflict may occur in an environment littered with
obstacles, hindrances, and challenges to overcome.
These obstacles are traits and don’t strictly belong to
any one character, but they are still problems that need
to be overcome in some way.
In a physical environment, such as for a skirmish or warfare
scene, these obstacles are features of the terrain: walls
and similar barriers, fast-flowing water, dense mud, shifting sands, and other features that impair movement and
action. During espionage or intrigue, these obstacles may
represent factors that prevent access to places or people.
When you attempt to overcome an obstacle, you must
describe how you are bypassing it, and then attempt
a skill test. The gamemaster determines the Difficulty;
this normally has a Difficulty of 1, but more challenging
obstacles naturally have a higher Difficulty. Passing this
test means that you’ve managed to pass the obstacle
unhindered. Failure means that you’ve been stopped
for the time being, and you’ll need to find a different
method to overcome the obstacle.

Often, a situation may not be entirely as it seems, and
many conflicts revolve around keeping secrets and relying on misdirection and misinformation. You’re likely
to find yourself in a position where you need to try and
gain information during a conflict in order to win, particularly in espionage and intrigue conflicts.

How this is resolved can differ based on the nature of
the information you seek and what you plan to do with
it. Basic information-gathering is typically a Difficulty
0 skill test the skill depending on the conflict, with
Momentum spent to ask the gamemaster questions
about the situation. Momentum from this can also be
used to create traits representing advantages gained
from knowledge, or to remove traits that represented
concealment or deception. You may instead seek to
create an asset, or overcome an obstacle by gaining
information, as noted above. The Momentum can even
be saved for later if it doesn't exceed the usual limit,
representing the advantage of scouting out the terrain
or your opponents first.
The Difficulty of this skill test increases if there are
any factors that would make the information harder
to uncover. Classified, restricted, or obscure information is harder to find, while secrets may be impossible to uncover unless you know where to look or who
to ask.
This form of test can be exceptionally useful for a gamemaster. Players often want to ask what their character
can learn by (for instance) mingling with the guests at
a party, surveying a battlefield, or asking around about
their enemy. Often there isn't any specific information
they can learn, but the action might yield something
useful. So, a test to gain information offers a chance
to build Momentum (or ask more specific questions)
that represents the minor details they learned that they
might turn to their advantage.

Example: Inside the facility, Kara defeats the base
commander in a duel and sets about interrogating
him for the information she is after. This could be
run as an intrigue conflict, but the commander has
already been defeated. So, the gamemaster asks
Kara's player to make a Communicate skill test to
see what she learns from the interrogation. As the
commander has just been defeated, the gamemaster
makes the Difficulty 0, but a more resistant captive
might offer a greater Difficulty.
Kara gets three successes on her test, so she gains
3 points of Momentum. She can save this for later,
making it useful information about the base and its
soldiers that might aid her in her next objective. But
she can also use it to ask the gamemaster questions,
representing what the commander actually told her.
She asks the gamemaster two questions. Satisfied
with her answers, she saves the third point for later.

Your character may end up in a situation where their
allies are hurt or impaired in some way and you want to
try and help them. These kinds of problems tend to take
the form of traits or complications inflicted on characters, and removing traits from a scene is much the same
as adding them.

If you wish to remove a trait, choose which trait you wish
to remove and describe how you wish to get rid of it.
Then, attempt a skill test, with a Difficulty of 2. If you
pass, then you’ve managed to remove the chosen trait.
Helping a defeated ally during the scene they were
defeated in works in much the same way but is somewhat more challenging. There are two ways you can go
about this.

@ If the defeat would have a lasting or permanent
effect (death, adding a new character trait, or some
other long-lasting consequence), then you may
attempt to prevent that lasting effect. Describe
how you wish to aid the defeated character and
attempt a skill test with a Difficulty of 2. If you pass,
then the ally is still defeated, but the lasting effect is
prevented: you’ve stabilized a dying ally, or you’ve
helped alleviate the lasting effect, but the ally still
needs time to recover and can’t rejoin the scene.

@ If the defeat has no lasting or permanent effect, then
you can try to recover the defeat directly. Describe
how you wish to recover the defeat, and begin an
extended task, with a requirement equal to 4 plus
the Quality of the asset used to defeat that ally. If
the extended task is completed, then the ally is no
longer defeated and they may rejoin the scene.

The basic system for conflict can be used for any form of conflict, from chases to intrigue to duels. We've
broken the most common forms of conflict into five types: Dueling, Skirmish, Warfare, Espionage and
Intrigue. These are not necessarily the only types of conflict, simply the most common ones. The following
provides a more detailed and streamlined version of these rules for these particular forms of conflict.

This detail is not a series of extra rules and exceptions that make everything more complicated. Instead,
it offers several examples of how the conflict system adapts to different settings. Most of the changes are
narrative, detailing what the various assets and zones should represent. If anything appears confusing, refer
back to the previous core system.

Honor duels amongst nobility and military officers are a
common way of settling disputes in the Imperium, and
gladiatorial combat is a common form of public entertainment. Alongside this, skill in single combat is also
useful for defending against would-be assassins. Elite
schools of swordmasters—such as the Ginaz—exist to
fight, and teach, combat to those who can afford them.

Dueling is a single combat between two individuals.
As such, the physical environment matters somewhat
less than the positioning of the combatants. Thus,
each character receives a single zone which represents
themselves, and two zones that represent the area
immediately around them, which can be thought of as
their guard, one to the left and one to the right, with
one fighter’s right guard zone connecting to their opponent’s left guard zone (though they might equally reflect
‘high’ and ‘low’, or any pair of areas that a fighter must
protect). See the example below.

Example: Kara is doing some combat training with
Nasir. As it is one-against-one, this is a duel, so the
zones are defined as the standard personal zone and
two defensive zones each.

The assets used in dueling are, naturally, weapons and
defenses.

Each combatant is assumed to turn to face their opponent
at all times. Both combatants’ assets begin the battle
within their own zone, and battle is a matter of moving
assets into positions to attack and defend effectively.
Moving a weapon asset into the opponent’s central zone
and making a successful attack typically results in the target’s defeat, though some prolonged bouts may require a
succession of attacks (using the extended task rules).

dueling asset. Blades, varying in size from swords to
daggers and knives, are the most common form of
melee weapons, and many combatants enter battle
with more than one: a blade in each hand, and maybe
some extras sheathed about their body for special
circumstances. Blades are useful both on offense
and defense, and swordsmanship is a complex game
of feints, parries, and precision attacks. In single
combat, moving a melee weapon asset represents the
position the weapon has relative to both attacker and
defender. A melee weapon may attack an opponent
once it has been moved into that opponent’s zone.
melee weapon, designed for trickery and deception
rather than honest battle. Tiny needles—nearly
invisible, always envenomed, often embedded
in clothes—can nick or scratch unwary foes with
innocuous movements. Concealed blades can be

drawn to provide a sudden advantage. Poison
and drug dispensers upon weapons can turn the
merest graze into a debilitating hit or leave a foe
disoriented.

used more commonly by soldiers and assassins
seeking an unfair fight in their favor. They’re hard
to use against a shielded target—the shield stops
fast-moving objects completely—but quite effective
otherwise. In dueling, moving a ranged weapon asset
represents moving where the weapon is pointed, and
what it is aimed at. A ranged weapon may attack an
opponent once the asset has been moved into that
opponent’s zone (that is, it’s aimed at them).

for anyone of any importance. All player characters
are assumed to be of sufficient standing that they
can equip a personal shield if desired. Most shields
protect the whole body, stopping any object moving
faster than a few centimeters per second (to allow air
to pass through and avoid suffocating the wearer).
Some combatants employ a partial shield, or halfshield, which only covers half of their body, but which
can be maneuvered around tactically. A full shield
asset cannot be moved. A half-shield asset can be
moved in single combat, but only to zones adjacent
to the wearer’s own zone. Attempting an attack in the
same zone as a shield is impossible unless the attack
is sufficiently slow-moving (normally from a melee
weapon). Note that a shield also prevents the wearer
from making ranged attacks.

but it is commonly used by soldiers who may not be
equipped with a shield. Those wearing shields tend
to avoid armor as it hinders mobility for little benefit;
the kinds of careful attack that can pierce a shield can
also find the weak spots in a suit of armor (see also
'Attacks' later).

In addition, characters may seek to create intangible
assets to represent an especially favorable position, or
taking aim, or other temporary advantages that come
about through tactics or circumstances.
Example: Kara and Nasir are both using knife
assets, but to give Nasir a chance, he is wearing a
shield and holding a knife in each hand. Kara only
has a single blade.

A cti o n s
i n D u eli n g
This section provides some guidance on the most
common actions you’re likely to attempt—or have
attempted against you—during a duel. These are all
explained in the Conflict Overview (p.167).

MOVEMENT

Moving assets in a duel reflects moving weapons and
defenses to attack and defend different areas.

@ Any asset worn on your character’s person, or which
represents their overall position or situation, is
placed in the zone that represents your character.
Such assets cannot be moved—they’re there to
protect you.

@ Any asset mounted upon one of your character’s
arms, or held in one of their hands, begin the conflict
in one or other of the zones immediately in front of
them; you can choose which ones go where. These
are normally weapons or tools, and they can be
positioned to help defend your character or attack
your opponent. Moving such an asset to the zone
representing your opponent allows you to attack
them with that asset.

@ If you find yourself without any other weapons, you
automatically receive an ‘Unarmed Attack’ tangible
asset with a Quality of 0, allowing you to strike and
grapple without the use of a weapon.

@ Intangible assets which represent things you’ve done
or are doing to your opponent—such as misdirection,
or aiming a ranged weapon—can be moved around
freely but are not present at the beginning of the
scene; they must be created during the conflict itself.

@ Moving an asset subtly often involves moving while

@ Moving an asset boldly is often a form of

misdirection, performing an obvious, dramatic
action to provoke a hasty reaction; the daring thrust
often serves to draw attention (and defenses) away
from the slow blade. Sometimes, moving an asset
represents wrestling your opponent into range of
your asset rather than moving the asset to them.

Example: Kara and Nasir both begin circling each
other. Nasir cannot move his shield asset, but can
move either or both knives in an attempt to get an
attack on Kara. He tries to keep one knife on the
offensive, moving it into Kara's defense zones, but
keeps one knife back in his defense zone to parry with.
He uses a lot of subtle moves in case he can get in the
right place to make an attack.

Kara makes a lot of bold moves, taking her blade close
to Nasir’s personal zone and giving her the option of
moving his defensive knife out of the way (by dodging
and weaving to find a gap in his guard).

ATTACKS

CREATING A TRAIT OR ASSET

Creating traits to give your character an edge or impair
your opponent can tip the balance of a fight in your
favor, opening up new opportunities for you or closing
off options that your opponent might have used. Similarly, creating new assets can be an important option
during a conflict.

The following is how the Conflict Overview (p.167)
applies to dueling:

@ A dueling asset must be a weapon of some kind,

and to defeat your opponent it must be used in the
zone that represents your opponent.

@ Tangible assets must be something hidden on your

@ The skill you roll in a dueling contest is normally

Battle for both sides; other skills are possible if
there’s a good reason. Creating a trait that represents
an observation or insight might allow you to use
Understand to attack or defend, while a trait that
represents good positioning might let you use Move.
The attacker’s final Difficulty increases by +1 for each
defensive asset in the same zone (armor, shields, and
weapons being used to block or guard).

@ If your successful attack leads to an extended task
(meaning the foe is not a minor character), the task’s
requirement equals the foe’s Battle skill.

TARGETING ASSETS

Targeting an opponent’s assets is a useful way of gaining an edge. While it’s next to impossible to deny a
shielded or armored foe their shield or armor—as such
assets are securely affixed to them—you can still remove
other kinds of asset from play. In these circumstances,
assets and traits are largely synonymous.

@ Assets which represent weapons can be knocked
from their owner’s hands, allowing you to disarm your
foe. They can attempt to retrieve weapons lost in this
way but doing so requires an action.

@ Intangible assets which represent your opponent’s
positioning or circumstances, or effects inflicted
upon you (such as being tricked, put off-balance, or
having a weapon aimed at you), can be overcome
and removed from play entirely. If an opponent has
a good position, you can move to deny them that. If

@ Intangible assets can represent the benefits of
observation, positioning, tactical ploys and tricks,
and any other advantage that may come from how
your character fights rather than the physical tools of
combat. Alternatively, an intangible asset might be
some hindrance inflicted upon an opponent, such as
knocking them off-balance, creating a fake opening
to lure them in, using taunts to distract or confuse
them, and similar.
Example: Kara manages to attack one of Nasir’s blade
assets, sending it spinning across the training floor out
of reach. Nasir fails to bring his other blade back for
defense and Kara presses her advantage, subtly moving
her blade into Nasir’s personal zone. She Keeps the Initiative to make an attack, but the shield asset increases
the Difficulty by 1. She succeeds, defeating Nasir by
sliding a slow blade under his throat.

Even in a one-on-one duel, knowledge is power. Being
able to read an opponent’s fighting style may allow you
to form appropriate defenses or figure out a way of
attacking that they’re ill-equipped to defend against.
Being observant might allow your character to detect
hidden weapons or discern the signs of their ploys.
While Understand is the obvious choice for gaining
information, the Battle skill can be useful in dueling for
learning about an opponent’s weapons and fighting
style or judging how capable a fighter your opponent is.
When gathering information during a duel, you might
wish to create traits that represent identifying a weakness in your foe’s defenses (making it easier to attack
them), or ones which represent anticipating enemy
attacks, to make it harder for the enemy to attack your
character. Alternatively, you may be on the lookout for
information that doesn’t help you during the combat at
hand, but which might be helpful later. Many swordmasters swear that you can only learn who someone
truly is when you fight them.

Skirmishes are combats involving a small number of
individual combatants, but more than a one-on-one
duel. They typically involve movement and maneuver
around a small environment, attempting to overcome
enemies through positioning and decisive action.

M a n e u v er &
P o siti o n i n g
In a skirmish between several combatants, the physical
environment is important. Each combatant does not have a
set of individual zones as they do in dueling. Instead, combatants maneuver around the battlefield, using the terrain
and their relative positions to their advantage.
The environment of the skirmish should be divided up
into zones around its features or simply to divide the
open space. Individual zones may grant advantages or
impose problems on the characters in them, representing terrain features.
Rather than moving assets around individually, skirmishes
track the movement of individual characters, moving them
using the normal rules for moving assets. Moving a knife
obviously moves the character holding it as well. If an asset
is in the same zone as a character or non-player character,
the asset can be used to make an attack on them.
A ranged weapon can be used to attack enemies in the
same zone at no penalty, or in an adjacent zone at +1
Difficulty. Moving a ranged weapon asset into another
zone represents taking aim at a target in that zone; it
need not mean the character themselves has moved
into that zone. When moving a ranged weapon asset
into another zone, the player should specify whether
their character is moving with it.
Example: Kara and Nasir are set upon by some thugs
in a back alley in Arrakeen. The gamemaster could
make the alley a single zone, but decides to make
things more interesting by creating three zones: the
part of the alley near the main road (entrance), the part
of the alley with a fire escape ladder (fire escape), and
the end of the alley that is a dead end (end).
The end of the alley has the trait ‘Dark’ as it is covered and shaded. The zone with the ladder might
offer opportunities to escape. Nasir and Kara begin
in the entrance zone with two thugs; three thugs
begin in each of the fire escape and end zones.

The assets used in skirmish are, naturally, weapons and
defenses.

@ Weapons and most defensive assets work in the

same way as they do in dueling. However, as each
combatant is a single target and not a collection of
zones, any attack allows the target to apply all their
defensive assets. A weapon used to attack can't be
used to parry in the same round. The gamemaster
may also decide other defenses can't be brought
to bear depending on circumstances.

@ Shields work in the same way as in dueling, except
that ranged attacks against half-shields increase
in Difficulty by +2 instead. Melee attacks against
shielded foes increase in Difficulty by +1.

combatants who may not be equipped with a
shield. Those wearing shields tend to avoid armor
as it hinders mobility for little benefit; the kinds of
careful attack that can pierce a shield can also find
the weak spots in a suit of armor. Armor makes
attacks against the wearer more difficult, with
heavier armor providing a bigger Difficulty increase,
but it also increases the complication range of
actions relating to movement and maneuvering by
the same amount.

@ Intangible assets can represent an especially

A cti o n s i n S k irmis h
This section provides some guidance on the most
common actions you’re likely to attempt—or have
attempted against you—during a skirmish. These are
all explained in the Conflict Overview (p.167), but here
we’ve provided some context that is specific to skirmishes for how to use and interpret those actions.

MOVEMENT

In a skirmish, you do not move your assets individually.
Rather, movement actions move your character around
the battlefield.

@ Ordinary movement allows you to move to any
adjacent zone. This can be thought of as a standard

ATTACKS, DEFEAT, AND USING ASSETS

walking pace, or normal wary movement around
a combat environment. Spending 2 points of
Momentum to move an additional zone represents
moving more quickly: a quick dash or run. You may
instead spend 2 points of Momentum to allow one
of your allies to move to an adjacent zone; the ally
must be able to see or hear you, and they take the
opportunity to move at your signal.

While the zones may be different, skirmish attacks work in
the same way as dueling attacks. The same options exist
to target assets, create new assets, and defeat opponents.
However, the options for defeat may be less formal.

@ Anyone in the same zone as any other character is
considered a viable target. Anyone not in the same
zone can only be attacked with ranged weapons.

@ Moving subtly often involves moving stealthily
or snatching the opportunity to move when an
opponent is distracted or looking elsewhere. This
opportune movement allows you to continue acting
before the enemy can respond.

@ Moving boldly is overt, dramatic, and attentiongrabbing, often accompanied by a shout or war-cry
that might drive a foe away in sudden fear, or a taunt
that draws out a chosen foe.

@ A failed attempt to move subtly or boldly allows a
single enemy to move to an adjacent zone.

Example: Kara acts first. With no need to move an
asset, she slashes at one of the thugs in the same
zone as she and Nasir. As the thug is a minor nonplayer character, and Kara wins a contested test, he
drops. On their turn, one of the thugs from another
zone attempts to move into Kara’s, but he fails, so
Kara holds him at bay. Nasir drops the other thug in
their zone with his pistol in another contested test.
The thugs press their attack, looking to move more
of them into the entrance zone to overwhelm Kara
and Nasir. While Kara dispatches more as they enter
her zone, with numbers on their side it isn’t long
before all the thugs are in the entrance zone targeting Kara and Nasir.
In the next round the thugs make a point of
targeting Nasir. As he is a player character it takes an
extended test to take Nasir down, but a concerted
attempt from the thugs nearly does so. As they are

all performing essentially the same action, all their
attacks on Nasir count to the same extended track.
Nasir uses his action to move to a different zone. The
thugs close in on Kara, but she manages to hold her
own. Nasir can try and shoot thugs attacking Kara
but with +1 to Difficulty for attacking an adjacent
zone with a ranged weapon. As he is not sure of his
skill, he moves his maula pistol asset into Kara’s zone.
Nasir can opt not to move with the asset, because
this is a ranged weapon and he is aiming. If he
moved subtly, he might keep the initiative and give
Kara a chance to fell one of them.
Instead, he moves boldly and is able to move one of the
thugs out of Kara’s zone, either shooting to force the
thug to step back or intimidating him with his pistol.
With most of the thugs down, the skirmish ends as
the remainder make a run for it.

The environment where a skirmish happens can be as
vital for victory or defeat as the combatants. Individual
zones may contain obstacles that are difficult to move
over, around, or past, or which otherwise get in the way
of fighting.
The majority of skill tests to overcome an obstacle use
Move; the obstacles may be an area of difficult terrain

that may slow your character down or ensnare them,
or there’s a hard barrier that cannot be crossed without
effort. It may be possible to use Understand, representing trying to discern an easy path through or past
the obstacle, or to use Discipline to simply force your
character through with grit and fortitude.

Even in a skirmish, knowledge is power. Being able to
read an opponent’s fighting style may allow you to form
appropriate defenses or figure out a way of attacking that they’re ill-equipped to defend against. Being
observant might allow your character to detect hidden
weapons or discern the signs of their ploys. It may also
be useful for spotting useful details about the environment around your character—spotting escape routes,
useful objects or items, precarious or dangerous terrain,
and similar.
While Understand is the obvious choice for gaining
information, the Battle skill can be useful in a skirmish for learning about an opponent’s weapons and
fighting style or judging how capable a fighter your
opponent is.
Creating new traits in a skirmish follows the same pattern as that for dueling, detailing the weaknesses of
your opponent. But it might also create new hazards in
the environment.

S pies a n d S ec u rit y
The assets used in espionage are normally spies and
security measures, but there are other forms of asset.

When resolving an espionage scene, the zones used
are somewhat abstract in nature. Each zone represents a person, a group of people, or a place. The
links between these zones are the natural connections
between them: a zone representing a particular group of
smugglers may have a link to someone who does business with them, and links to the places those smugglers
regularly do business. Each of these links should denote
the nature of the connection. A small example is below.

deception, and other covert means to gather
information. Most spies divide their efforts between
obtaining information themselves—using fake
identities, disguises, and similar methods—and
building a network of informants of their own. Spies
also watch for the activities of opposing spies.
However, true spies are a rare and precious resource,
and one that should not be squandered. Moving a
spy into a zone represents an attempt to infiltrate that
particular group or place, or to get into the presence
or confidence of that person. Spies can create
informant assets and place surveillance devices.

mobile, than spies, but they are often already wellplaced within a location or group, or within the
confidence of a person. Informants are normally
created through bribery or extortion. Servants make
excellent informants, as they often are privy to their
masters’ secrets while being considered beneath
notice. Moving an informant is the same as moving a
spy, but informants typically have a lower Quality and
thus less ability to move around.

Arrakis (Place)
What defines each zone is that each is a potential source
of information or is connected to one.
One element that makes espionage zones unusual is
that they may be unknown to the players: a map might
only show the zones and links the player characters are
aware of, and it may require time and effort (and actions)
to reveal links and zones which were previously hidden.
Thus, an espionage scene is a process of informationgathering, attempting to discover a way to obtain a
crucial secret, or to protect such secrets from being
uncovered. These hidden connections are normally
revealed—or sometimes created—through actions taken
by characters, using assets moved into those zones.
At times, a zone may instead represent an event—a
gathering or meeting of some sort. Events only occur
at a particular time and a particular place, but they can
provide a rare connection between groups or people

who are normally unconnected. As they’re time-sensitive,
they may vanish after a few turns, though recurring events
may appear and disappear on a schedule. Needless to
say, it can be vital to learn of an event before it happens.

images can be invaluable espionage tools, allowing
information to be gathered without the presence
of a person. They require the correct placement
to be used effectively, and they cannot be moved
afterward without being physically retrieved (which
also recovers any information they’ve gathered).
They’re hard to find, but if they are discovered, the
information they’ve gathered is lost.

@ Security measures are the antithesis of espionage,

and any House makes full use of every method
available to keep spies out. Security measures range
from guards and sentries—infantry soldiers, normally
warfare assets—to physical security such as reinforced
walls, locks, penta-shield doors, no-rooms, and similar.
Mobile security, such as guards, can be moved around
to actively search for spies, informants, and surveillance
devices (and question people, for more overt
information-gathering), while static security measures
are passive and only serve to present an obstacle.

You may also seek to create intangible assets that
represent rumors, information leaks, or propaganda that
undermines, misleads, or disrupts the enemy. On the
defensive side of things, you may use information about
suspected spies, additional security procedures such as
random patrols or searches, or other actions undertaken
by your security measures as a form of intangible asset.
Example: Kara has been sent to investigate a spice
smuggling operation. All she knows is that it is based on
Arrakis. An investigation gets her a clue that the smugglers are trading with a particular group of Fremen.
Posing as a spice dealer, she makes connections with the
Fremen that lets her contact with the smugglers. Eventually she infiltrates the group deep enough to learn who
is running the organization. However, she could have
come at this from any zone. If she were a Fremen, she
might have found something going on with the tribe.
She might even have run into the leader and become
suspicious enough to try and find out what he was up to.

A cti o n s i n E spi o n a g e
This section provides some guidance on the most common
actions you’re likely to attempt—or have attempted
against your character—during espionage scenes. These
are all explained in the Conflict Overview (p.167), but
here we’ve provided some context that is specific to espionage for how to use and interpret those actions.

MOVEMENT

Moving assets in espionage reflects moving agents and
security apparatus to the places and people where they’re
the most useful. It represents spies and similar assets
moving under instructions from their handlers—the player
characters—often over a protracted period of time.

@ Assets are capable of observing or protecting
the zone they are in, so moving them around is a
necessary part of getting the desired information or
securing your House’s secrets.

commonplace in espionage—stealth and guile are
part of the process after all—and getting assets
into position quietly has the obvious advantage of
preventing the enemy from being able to react to
you. Defensively, moving security measures secretly
may catch enemy spies off-guard.

@ Moving an asset boldly may not seem appropriate for

espionage, but it can have value. Actions that draw
attention in a particular way can create distractions
and provoke responses, and a bold action doesn’t
need to be loud and visible to everyone… in
espionage, it just needs to be noticed by an opposing
spymaster. Defensively, moving security measures in
an overt and dramatic manner may just lure enemy
spies into making a deadly mistake.

@ If your character is inclined to engage in espionage
more directly—perhaps because they are a spy
themselves—they may do so, treating themselves as
a spy asset. For these purposes, their Quality is the
lowest of their Understand and Move, minus four. This
may also produce opportunities for skirmishes and
dueling scenes if the character is targeted.

ATTACKS

Direct attacks should be relatively rare in an espionage
conflict, because they turn the situation from spying to
assassination, as you target an opposing character or try
to avoid your own character being targeted. However,
more subtle attacks are still an option.
The following is how the Conflict Overview (p.167)
applies to espionage:

@ As mentioned above under Assets in Espionage:

Spies and Security, assets in espionage are usually
things like spies, informants, surveillance devices,
and intangible assets like rumors and propaganda.

@ The skill you roll in an espionage contest is normally

@ Surveillance devices cannot be moved once set.

Move for you, to get close enough to strike; your
opponent may use Discipline or Understand to
represent their awareness.

@ Security measure assets protect a zone by making it

@ If you fail your contest, the gamemaster may rule that

harder to enter that zone, with the protection provided
having a rating equal to the security measure’s Quality.

@ When you attempt to move a spy asset, compare the
spy’s Quality with the highest-rated security measures
of the zone they are moving to. If the security measures
have a higher Quality, the spy asset cannot enter that
zone without attempting to move subtly or boldly.

@ The Difficulty of skill tests to move a spy asset subtly
or boldly increase by +1 for each security measure in
place in the destination zone.

@ Active security measures—guards and similar—can be
moved around freely.

@ Moving an asset subtly should be fairly

the scene is now a skirmish or duel.

@ If your successful attack leads to an extended task
(meaning the foe is not a minor character), the task’s
requirement depends on how your foe would resist
your attack—likely Discipline or Understand.

@ A lasting defeat from assassination is much the

place a surveillance device in the operation. She might do
this by bugging one of the smugglers or placing a device
in one of their facilities or ships. In game terms, though,
she is moving a surveillance device asset into the smuggling operation zone.
She is successful in moving the asset, but she needs to use it
to learn anything. The gamemaster can set a base Difficulty,
but if Kara is trying to learn about a particular person the
roll might be contested by that person’s skills. The surveillance device in the right zone is what allows her to make
the test, so it can’t help her with the Difficulty. There is also
a surveillance countermeasure asset in the zone protecting
the smugglers and adding +1 to the Difficulty.
Kara spends Momentum, representing long hours poring
over data, and luckily makes a successful test. The gamemaster gives her some information about the leader of the
group to help move her investigation forward, but she can
also use Momentum to ask some additional questions she
may have overheard the answers to.

Espionage often leaves little trace, sometimes not even a
body. The consequences of defeat can vary wildly depending on the plot. Usually, victory simply means that one agent
has acquired the intelligence they were after, and if they do
really well their enemies won't even know they have it.

TARGETING ASSETS

It can be useful to try and sabotage the assets of your
opponent during an espionage scene. This involves eliminating or exposing enemy spies and informants, disabling
surveillance devices, and undermining security measures.

@ Targeting spies results in the spy being removed
from play, but not eliminated. They’ve been
exposed, and need to withdraw and go into hiding
to establish new cover identities and rebuild
connections, which takes time and effort.

@ Targeting surveillance devices destroys them or
renders them useless. Once their presence is known,
they can no longer provide valuable information.
Spending 2 points of Momentum to create a trait
‘Subverted Surveillance’ (or something similar) may
allow you to use a discovered surveillance device to
spread disinformation.

@ Targeting security measures does not destroy or
disable them, but rather creates a way for your
assets to bypass them: a bribed guard, a hidden way
through the walls, a way to unlock a door, etc. This
renders the asset ineffective, at least until the breach
is discovered and closed (recovering the asset).

CREATING A TRAIT OR ASSET

Creating traits can help shape the landscape in espionage, creating options, opportunities, and connections
that may not have existed before.

@ A created trait may lay the groundwork for other
actions later, such as establishing an alias or cover
story to make it easier to bypass security later.

@ A trait can also be used, with the right justification
for how it is created, to connect one zone to another.
Once connected, two zones count as adjacent,
allowing your character access (or easier access) to a
person or place you had little or no access to before.

@ The most common forms of tangible asset created
for espionage are informants and surveillance
devices. An informant functions just like a spy,
though they’re normally less capable and somewhat
disposable. Surveillance devices can gather
information remotely and be very difficult to find, but
they cannot really move between zones.

@ Intangible assets can represent the uncontrolled
spread of information, true or otherwise, which can
help influence how the opposition acts or reacts.
Similarly, you can create additional intangible assets
to represent actions undertaken by active security,
such as additional patrols or tighter procedures,
bolstering the security measures present in a zone.

Obstacles in espionage are not typically physical obstructions so much as social or political ones. Secretive or isolated
factions may be difficult or impossible for an asset to reach
under normal circumstances, even if connections exist.
Overcoming such obstacles typically requires work
establishing legitimate—or seemingly-legitimate—reasons for access, such as an asset proving themselves
worthy or useful to an isolated group who shun outsiders, or obtaining letters of introduction or some other
reason to reach a reclusive but powerful individual.
These typically require Communicate or Understand
tests, but tests of worth may require Battle, Move, or
Discipline tests depending on the nature of the group
you’re seeking to access.

Information is the point of espionage, so naturally this
action is undertaken frequently during espionage scenes.
You may only gather information from a zone where
you have a spy, informant, or surveillance device asset
present. Getting such assets into position is the central
challenge of espionage. In addition, the Difficulty of any
skill tests made to gather information is increased by +1
for each security measure asset the opponent has in that
zone, as their presence is a hindrance.

Understand is the skill used for most information-gathering actions in espionage, as that is the skill most applicable
to obtaining and processing knowledge. Other skills may
be applicable, but only in specific circumstances where the
skill relates to the kinds of information being gathered.
Some information may not be obtained easily, requiring that it be actively retrieved from people rather
than gathered passively from written records or simple
observation. This, naturally, becomes a contest against
the character being questioned (which obviously
cannot be done by a surveillance device). Attempting
to question a character without revealing a spy’s nature
is more difficult for the spy but tends to avoid some of

the nastier consequences. Alternatively, converting a
well-placed non-player character into a double agent
can be extremely valuable, but difficult, likely requiring
an extended task (with a requirement equal to the nonplayer character’s Discipline) and some way of persuading them to betray their masters.
Other information may take time and effort over a prolonged period to obtain, requiring an extended task to
complete. This may even require working toward the task
in different locations or from different people, piecing
together information from multiple sources, with all the
challenges that ensue in getting from location to location

War in the Imperium is both a constant threat and also
heavily regulated. Most Houses maintain a standing army
of some sort, and many can supplement this with mercenary companies and other unscrupulous types. However,
war has rules. Some methods—such as the use of atomics
or equivalent destructive forces—on human populations
will make enemies of the entire Landsraad, who are quick
to enforce breaches of the rules of warfare, and the proper
conduct of war between Houses is serious business.
On a single world, individual Minor Houses may war
amongst one another, so long as the Major House that
rules over them permits it, and Major Houses may use
their own forces to put down rebellious and seditious

M a n e u v er & T err a i n
Warfare is similar to a skirmish, but on a much larger scale.
When resolving a warfare scene, zones represent locations
of strategic importance. The gate to a city, a main road,
a defensible hilltop, a valuable mine or factory, an airfield
or spaceport, a command bunker… all of these could be

zones in Warfare. The key is to denote the places where
fighting is likely to take place, and when armies march to
war, they fight over places of importance.

but some battles are fought over several objectives, with
each side having to protect something as well as trying to
take control of something their opponents have.

Individual locations often have some benefit or advantage they provide to whomever holds them, or represent something which is valuable to the possessor. A
gateway may be one of the few pathways into a city,
while a main road may be the fastest route from one
place to another. A mine or factory may simply be
valuable, while an airfield or spaceport may allow the
possessor to mobilize ornithopters and other aircraft
more easily, and a command bunker may contain senior
officers or even members of the enemy House.

Example: On a deserted moon, House Molay and
House Arcuri have come to blows over a mining
deposit. The area is divided into five zones, one of
which is the mining deposit’s richest site. Kara is
leading the Molay forces, which have been landed in
one zone. The Arcuri forces are in another. Whoever
can secure the mining deposits zone or destroy the
opposing force’s assets first will be the victor.

Similarly, some locations may pose problems: terrain
may impair the advance of troops and vehicles or leave
occupying forces vulnerable to attack. Some locations
may only have an effect for one side or another: defending forces may know the local terrain better and be able
to take advantage of it in ways that invaders cannot.

The player characters themselves may or may not be
directly involved in warfare. Some characters may choose
to lead their forces personally (in which case, they move
with whichever asset represents the unit they lead), while
others may be content to give their orders from the safety
of a command bunker or fortified war room.
At the start of the battle, an objective that will lead to
victory must be set. This might be something like control
of a particular zone (such as 'control of the Arrakeen Residency'). The objective is usually the same for each side,

Assets used in warfare are armed forces and fortifications.

squads or platoons of infantry are a common form
of asset. Infantry may be armed and equipped in a
few different ways, from lightly equipped commando
units, to armored heavy infantry carrying heavier
weaponry. They normally carry a mixture of blades
and projectile weapons, with occasional use of
lasguns if the enemy is likely to lack shields. Shielded
infantry fight exclusively with blades, as their shields
stop their own projectile weapons as surely as an
enemy’s. Infantry fight at relatively close ranges, and
thus can only attack other assets in the same zone.

forces. An armored groundcar can withstand greater
punishment than infantry, and travel more quickly
or more reliably over rough terrain. Ground vehicles
are normally used for reconnaissance and transport,
though they are occasionally fitted with heavier
weaponry when the enemy lacks shields. Shielded
ground vehicles, naturally, don’t carry weaponry,
though they do need to deactivate their shields for
passengers to embark or disembark or for cargo to
be loaded or unloaded. Ground vehicles can carry
infantry assets around the battlefield.

ground vehicles—as scouts and transports—though
they tend to be faster and have the advantage of
altitude. This also means that anything transported
in an aircraft (such as an ornithopter) is far less likely
to survive if the craft is destroyed, though a shielded
ornithopter has little to fear until it comes time to
take on or disgorge passengers or cargo. Aircraft can
move significantly faster than ground forces, moving
one additional zone with each move.

and obstacles, that prevent an enemy from moving
into or through an area, or which provide cover
and protection for defending troops (or both). The
simplest kinds of fortifications are earthworks which
can be hastily constructed by troops in the field,
while the most potent are House shields that can
protect a palace or castle from attack. Obviously, the
more powerful the fortification, the more costly it is
to construct or obtain, and fortifications cannot be
moved.

In addition, characters may seek to create intangible
assets to represent ambushes, tactical ploys, special
knowledge given to (or discovered by) specific units,
and so forth.
Example: Kara herself is in a command shuttle and
intends to stay there to direct the battle. For assets
she has several tanks, soldier assault teams, and ornithopters. She starts moving the ornithopters in as they
are ‘Fast’, to claim the objective area first, bringing
the tanks and soldiers up behind them for support.

MOVEMENT

In warfare, each asset represents a military unit of some
sort, and moving them around represents deploying
them to different positions and maneuvering them
around a battlefield. Units move at the behest of your
character’s orders and instructions, either conveyed in
person or transmitted using radio or similar technologies.

@ When you begin a warfare scene, you must declare
where on the battlefield your character is. Some
player characters may prefer to operate from relative
safety, far behind the front lines, while others wish to
lead from the front. If ever an allied asset moves from
your character’s current zone, you may choose to
move your character with it if you wish.

@ When you make a skill test to move or use an asset
and your character is in the same zone as that unit,
you may reduce the Difficulty of that skill test by 1
(to a minimum of 1), to represent the advantages of
leading your forces directly.

@ When you make a skill test to move an asset and your
character is not in the same zone as it, you may reduce
the normal Momentum cost to move further or move
a second asset to 1, to represent the bigger picture
perspective you gain from maintaining a distance.

@ Some assets are noted as immobile, often representing
defenses, fortifications, and similar emplaced positions.
These assets can be used, but they cannot move.

@ Some assets might be noted as ‘Fast’; these are often
aircraft like ornithopters, or high-speed groundcars.
Whenever a fast asset is moved, you may move it
one additional zone.

@ Moving subtly involves commanding a unit to move
stealthily or taking the opportunity to move when
the enemy is distracted or looking elsewhere. The
opportune movement allows you to redeploy and
take further action before the enemy can respond.

ATTACKS

The following is how the Conflict Overview (p.167)
applies to warfare:

@ As mentioned above under Assets: Armed Forces

Below you’ll find guidance on the most common actions
you’re likely to attempt—or have attempted against
your character—during warfare. These are all explained
in the Conflict Overview (p.167), but here we’ve provided some context that is specific to warfare scenes for
how to use and interpret those actions.

@ The skill you roll in a warfare contest is normally Battle

and Fortifications, assets in warfare are larger in
scale than a skirmish, representing such battlefield
elements as soldiers, vehicles, and fortifications.

for both sides; other skills are possible if there’s a good
reason. The attacker’s final Difficulty increases by +1
for each additional allied asset in the same zone.

@ If your successful attack leads to an extended task
(meaning the foe is not a minor character), the task’s
requirement equals the foe’s Battle skill.

up new opportunities for you or closing off options that
your opponent might have used. Similarly, creating new
assets can be an important option during a conflict.

@ Tangible assets may be emerging from a hidden

a catastrophic loss of morale that the asset may be
impossible to recover.

position on the battlefield, or they may be
reinforcements arriving from afar.

Example: The ornithopters reach the deposit zone first,
granting Kara defensive assets in the zone and making
it harder for the Arcuri forces to claim it. Then battle is
joined by the heavier tank assets from both sides.
Unfortunately, while the Arcuri forces are not as fast,
they are more dangerous. Kara loses most of her tanks
in the exchange as the Arcuri forces target them.

Battles are not usually decided just on which army
destroys the other (although that also works). To win a
warfare conflict, one side needs to take control of an
agreed objective. This is usually a strategic zone, the
control of which grants the power both sides seek to
claim. What this objective is should be set at the start
of the battle; all sides in the conflict are aware of it as
they all know what they are trying to achieve. If one side
claims the objective and the other has no assets left in
play (or that they wish to engage with), the battle is over
and the loser must accept the consequences.
An asset defeated in warfare has suffered casualties and is
withdrawn from battle. With some effort, they can be rallied
and brought back into the fight, though with a Quality one
less than normal due to casualties and reduced morale.
Example: Having lost a significant part of her forces,
Kara’s ornithopters can't hope to hold on to the
deposit zone against the Arcuri tanks. But while the
Arcuri command shuttle is as far away as Kara’s, it
isn't much distance for an ornithopter to cross. She
moves the ornithopters straight to the enemy command shuttle and opens fire on it.
With the Arcuri tanks too far to protect it, the shuttle
is forced to leave the zone. Kara moves her tanks
into the deposit zone and waits for Arcuris' next
move. With their command shuttle damaged and
Molay tanks now in the objective zone, they decide
to retreat and regroup, but only for now.

TARGETING ASSETS

Warfare revolves around targeting and defeating assets,
and the system for doing so is the same. However, more
assets may be in play at any given time. The gamemaster
may insist that especially important assets be removed
with a contested roll instead, as they have more protection.

CREATING A TRAIT OR ASSET

Creating traits to give you an edge or impair your opponent can tip the balance of a fight in your favor, opening

@ Intangible assets can represent the benefits of

observation, positioning, tactical ploys and tricks,
and any other advantage that may come from how
your character fights rather than the physical tools
of combat. Intangible assets can also represent
misinformation given to the enemy, such as
incorrect intelligence about the positioning of
assets.

The battlefield can be as vital for victory or defeat as
the combatants. Individual zones may contain obstacles and terrain features that are difficult to move over,
around, or past, or which otherwise get in the way of
fighting.

@ Battle, Communicate, and Discipline can all serve
as ways to coordinate and motivate military forces
to maneuver through or clear out an obstacle.

@ Move can be used to lead by example, guiding a

unit through the terrain with personal experience.

In war, knowledge is power. Obtaining accurate information about enemy movements and dispositions is a
vital part of commanding an army. This typically relies
on scouts and reconnaissance operations, who can
gather and relay information.
In a warfare scene, you must select an allied asset
when gathering information. You may gather information about anything within their current zone or an
adjacent zone, as that assets performs scouting and
recon missions.
While Understand is the obvious choice for processing this information, the Battle skill can be useful in
warfare for judging the strength of enemy forces based
on their armament and disposition, and for spotting
enemy strategies unfold. Similarly, Communicate
can be valuable when trying to decipher intercepted
enemy communications.
When gathering information during warfare, you might
wish to create traits that represent identifying a weakness in enemy defenses (making it easier to attack
them), or ones which represent anticipating enemy
attacks, to make it harder for the enemy to attack your
character.

Subtle battles of status, wits, words, and secrets,
intrigue is perhaps one of the most difficult forms of
conflict to visualize, but also one of the most rewarding to play out. Intrigue is an inevitable part of power
and politics, with status, influence, and more tangible
resources at stake. Everyone who takes part in intrigue
has something to gain and everything to lose, and even
those at the very top of society—the Padishah Emperor,
the Spacing Guild, CHOAM, and the subtle Bene Gesserit—must play this game carefully.

Intrigue is a social conflict and so bears some similarity
with espionage. But in truth it is closer to warfare, using
generally intangible rather than tangible assets. Like
warfare it should have an objective, which might be control of an area of an intangible zone (an area of politics,
a favor or deal) or just the capitulation of an enemy.

It may be useful, in some social scenes, to think
about the physical environment rather than social
connections; you may be describing a social gathering such as a party, a diplomatic conference, or
something similar.
These function in much the same was as environments described in the Skirmish section, though
they are typically more comfortable. Each zone
is likely to be a different room, though especially
large chambers may be divided into multiple zones
at the gamemaster’s discretion. Characters can
move between these zones freely—though there
may be locked doors or guards barring access to
some areas—and unless you are deliberately trying
to be discreet, any character in the same zone
as you can hear the conversations you have. This
does mean that finding a quiet, isolated place to
have a private conversation can be important.

P ers o n a l a n d
P olitical C onnections
The zones in an intrigue scene are the people and
groups involved. This can be very simple, with one zone
for each individual participant, or more complex as factions such as Houses, and the interconnected web of
loyalties and rivalries, come into play.
In the simplest cases, it should be sufficient to create
one zone for each person involved in that particular
intrigue. This might be the people in a specific location
at a particular time, such as a society party, a meeting,
or similar gathering, or it might simply be all the people
vying for power and influence in a particular region of
a planet, or within the courts of a Major House which
commands your own. Your character is considered to be
adjacent to any zone which represents someone they
can communicate with in some way: speaking directly,
sending messages, etc. If your character is unable to
communicate with someone—perhaps their underlings
or allies serve as intermediaries—they do not count as
adjacent to that person’s zone.
As the number of people involved in intrigue grows, the
intrigue itself grows more complicated. Grouping individuals into factions and allegiances is often the first step
here, creating hard connections between those aligned
people to represent their shared interests (and meaning
that, if your character can influence one, that can be a
way to reach others in that group who might be hard to
get to otherwise). Additionally, new zones may be added
to the map whenever needed to represent new participants or parties who weren’t involved before but are now
(such as someone calling on allies to support them).
Example: Kara wants to find some leverage on a
spice merchant she thinks may be cheating her
House. So, she puts together a list of people to
investigate and potentially manipulate and makes
them zones. The zones she collects are: the spice
merchant, her husband, her business partner, and
her secretary. Kara may add more if her investigation
brings other people to her attention.

A couple of extra considerations for intrigue are disposition
(what is the relationship between your character and someone else) and desire (what does each person want). These
factors can often influence how characters choose to interact
with the people in an intrigue (and the zones that represent
them). These might not always be immediately visible, and
part of the intrigue may be to discover who hates whom, who
is secretly working with whom, and what everyone wants.

A character or group has a disposition of Allied,
Friendly, Neutral, Unfriendly, or Opposed, which modifies the Difficulty of attempts to influence them by the
amounts shown on the table below. Disposition is
always that character/group’s stance toward the player
characters and their House.
DISPOSITION

meaningful in intrigue, and you may wish to use this
to your advantage by creating intangible assets that
represent things your character claims to possess.
Moving an intrigue asset into another zone allows you
to confront that person with the asset, perhaps to offer
it as a gift, to propose a trade, or to try and threaten
or coerce them. The asset is considered to be leverage, which allows your character to influence someone else, whether positively (the ability to help that
person), negatively (the ability to harm that person or
take something from them), or through the status quo
(appealing to social standards and norms, religious
drives, or the target’s reputation).

–2 Difficulty (minimum 0)

–1 Difficulty (minimum 0)

+1 Difficulty

+2 Difficulty

@ Knowledge is the basic currency of intrigue.

Disposition is not fixed and should change over time as a
result of various actions. You may attempt to improve the
disposition of others if you help them get something they
want. You might worsen the disposition of others if you help
their rivals or enemies, if you claim something they wanted,
or if you do something that causes problems for them.
Noting the desire of a zone (whether it represents a
person or group) works alongside this. Much like a
player character’s ambition, this represents what that
person or that group wants to achieve or obtain. This
both guides the actions of that person or group (it’s
a roleplaying prompt for the gamemaster), and is
something valuable for the player characters to learn,
because it allows them to influence that person or group
more easily. A desire should be a short statement of
intent and it doesn’t have any numerical value.
Example: As Kara has had dealings with the
spice merchant before, her starting disposition is
unfriendly. However, Kara has met the spice merchant’s husband before at a party and they got on
very well, so his disposition is friendly. Kara doesn’t
know the others, and her House has no connection
to them either, so their disposition is neutral.
Kara decides to focus on the husband first.

T r a de a n d S ecrets
The assets used in intrigue are typically things which
can be used or traded to gain an advantage or exert
influence. Many of these assets are intangible, representing information learned or rumors circulated (and
the potential for extortion, knowledge trading, and
similar activities), while tangible assets may represent
valuable items such as precious goods, raw materials,
land, or hard evidence. However, as your character
rarely has those items on their person, the difference
between tangible and intangible assets is far less

Example: Kara targets the husband first to see what
she can find out. She creates an asset ‘Suspicious
Rumor’ and brings it into the husband’s zone. Using
this to get the husband to confide (as part of a roleplaying scene) Kara is told the husband is concerned
his wife is having an affair. Having confirmed Kara's
suspicions, the gamemaster gives Kara the asset
‘Rumor of an Affair’.

A cti o n s i n I n tri g u e
In this section you’ll find guidance for common actions
you’re likely to attempt—or have attempted against
your character—during intrigue scenes. These are all
explained in the Conflict Overview (p.167), but here
we’ve provided some context that is specific to intrigue
for how to use and interpret those actions.

MOVEMENT

Assets in intrigue are sources of leverage and things
which can be traded to gain an advantage during social
interactions. Moving an asset to a character’s zone represents putting that leverage or those valuables into a
position where they can be used, mentioning or alluding
to knowledge your character has or resources they possess in conversation.

@ Moving assets in intrigue is relatively uncomplicated,
as any individual your character can talk to directly (or
any group where they can speak to a representative)
counts as an adjacent zone you can move assets into.

@ Moving an asset subtly can represent using

innuendo, subtlety, and implication to bring that
asset into the conversation, creating a situation
where your opponent may not know what you’re
implying until it’s too late.

@ Moving an asset boldly is the use of direct, forceful
language and mannerisms to bring the asset into
the conversation, with the intent of compelling an
immediate, hasty response from your opponent.

ATTACKS

Direct attacks should be relatively rare in intrigue, but
where they represent physical attacks in other forms of
conflict, they represent a social attack in intrigue—an
attempt to diminish or destroy someone’s social influence in order to prevent them from meaningfully taking
part in the intrigue.
In an intrigue attack, it’s important to describe how your
character is attacking the target. The attack doesn’t
always require interacting with the character directly;
rather, it can represent a concerted effort to shame
and disgrace the target character, often by spreading
rumors, revealing unpleasant information about them,
or attempting to provoke a disgraceful act from the
target. It may also represent blackmailing the target to
get them to back down willingly, or it may be a process
of undermining the target’s resources and the sources of
their influence.
The following is how the Conflict Overview (p.167)
applies to intrigue:

@ Many assets used in an intrigue attack are intangible,
such as knowledge and rumors, as mentioned
above under Assets in Intrigue: Trade and Secrets.
Tangible assets are often in the form of evidence or
coveted valuables.

@ The skill you roll in an intrigue contest is normally a

Communicate skill test for you, to get close enough
to strike; your opponent may use Discipline or
Communicate in response.

@ If you fail your contest, it may lead to the target
seeking to avenge such a slight, which could include
a challenge to single combat if they are of a militant
inclination.

@ If your successful attack leads to an extended task
(meaning the foe is not a minor character), the task’s
requirement usually equals the foe’s Discipline skill.

Example: Kara’s next move is to see if the rumor can
grant her any leverage with the partner or secretary.
In further roleplaying scenes, Kara engages with each
of them. The secretary isn’t bothered about the rumor,
so it cannot be used to initiate a conflict. But that does
tell Kara the secretary has no part in it. However, the
gamemaster rules the partner can be brought into a
conflict by using the asset. This at least tells Kara the
partner is involved, or at least worried about the consequences of an affair being revealed.
Kara initiates a conflict with the partner (in a roleplaying scene) and successfully defeats the partner in the
contest. The partner breaks down and explains she is
the one the spice merchant is having an affair with. The
gamemaster grants Kara the partner as a new asset,
representing her confession.
Now Kara can bring all these assets to a conflict with
the spice merchant. Kara won’t need an asset to initiate a conflict, as she can negotiate with the merchant
at any time. But the assets help her reduce the Difficulty due to the spice merchant’s disposition in those
negotiations. Kara and the merchant enter a contested
test, with Kara managing to defeat the merchant, winning a much better spice deal for her House as long as
she keeps a few secrets.

A character defeated in intrigue simply departs the
scene; they may leave voluntarily, or be forcibly ejected,
but either way, they are no longer present to participate
in the scene. They may also suffer reputation loss if the
defeat is public. Defeat may also cause the target to
submit utterly to the will of the victor for a time, having
been forced to capitulate to their argument or leverage.
It may grant the victor a new asset, such as an owed
favor, new resources, or even their rival themselves
forced to act as their agent.

TARGETING ASSETS

It can be useful to try and undermine the assets of your
opponent during an intrigue scene. This involves challenging the truth of information, casting doubt upon the
provenance or worth of resources and other valuables,
and similar means of rendering an asset ineffective.

@ Knowledge assets can be tricky to target, unless your
character has access to information which appears
to contradict that knowledge, or some way to cast
doubt upon the validity or worth of that knowledge.
Once doubt has been established, the leverage
of knowledge is greatly diminished, but it can be
recovered if the information can be properly verified
by a trusted source.

@ Lies and rumors are similar to knowledge, but easier
to produce and easier to remove, as they have little
or no basis in truth to begin with. Once sufficient
doubt has been cast upon a lie or rumor asset, it
loses any Quality it had.

Obstacles in intrigue are not typically physical obstructions so much as social or political ones. Secretive or
isolated factions may be difficult or impossible to reach
under normal circumstances, even if connections exist.
Overcoming such obstacles typically requires work
establishing legitimate—or seemingly-legitimate—
reasons for access, such as proving yourself worthy
or useful to an isolated group who shun outsiders, or
obtaining letters of introduction or some other reason to
reach a reclusive but powerful individual.
These typically require Communicate or Understand
tests, but tests of worth may require Battle, Move, or
Discipline tests depending on the nature of the group
you’re seeking to access.

Information is valuable in intrigue, so naturally this
action is undertaken frequently during intrigue scenes.

@ Valuables can be difficult to target, as the asset
represents items with actual physical presence and
real worth. As with knowledge, casting doubt upon
the real worth of a valuable is possible—are these
art items real or fake, do you have as much of this
mineral as you claim, etc.—but often more effective
is demonstrating that there is no need or demand for
those valuables. A shipment of rare raw materials is
less useful as leverage against a person who has no
need for those materials, or who can obtain those
materials more cheaply elsewhere.

CREATING A TRAIT OR ASSET

Creating traits can help shape the landscape in intrigue,
creating options, opportunities, and connections that
may not have existed before.

@ A created trait may lay the groundwork for other
actions later, such as establishing a good rapport
with a character you may wish to deal with later,
or a falsehood that you’ve managed to convince
someone else to believe.

@ Tangible assets are difficult to create in intrigue,
but it is entirely possible to pass them between
characters; obtaining an asset from another party
within the scene to use for your own purposes can be
quite useful, but you may have to give something up
to achieve that.

@ Intangible assets are most commonly lies and
rumors, including lies about what valuables or
knowledge your character possesses. These are
easy to create, but easy to destroy as well, and it is
potentially dangerous to lean too heavily on deceit
to achieve your goals in intrigue, as it can result in
many resentful people who regard your character as
a cheat and a liar.

Most characters in an intrigue scene are fairly guarded
about their goals and their feelings, seeking to maintain a mask of neutrality where their true intent cannot
be easily guessed. As noted above, characters in an
intrigue scene have dispositions—how they feel about
other characters—and desires—what they wish to
gain—which guide their actions, but most try to keep
those secret.
So, gaining information about who wants what, and who
likes or dislikes whom, can be an invaluable part of an
intrigue, as you cannot easily get what you want unless
you can navigate these social battlefields. This normally
involves observation and asking around, trying to glean
information from other people. Some may give up small
amounts of information freely, while others may be more
forthcoming but only if they get something in return,
and some information can be obtained simply by standing back and observing proceedings. This is, in fact, an
ability that many Bene Gesserit master, allowing them
to discern subtle details from signs that most wouldn’t
even notice.
Learning the disposition of another character is relatively straightforward, requiring only Momentum to be
spent to Obtain Information (one question lets you ask
the disposition of one character toward a single other
character). Learning desires is a longer process.
Discovering the desire of a character is an extended
task, with a requirement equal to that character’s Discipline. Overcoming that extended task reveals the target
character’s desire. Each successful attempt to gather
information scores points toward that requirement equal
to your character’s Understand minus two. You may
spend 2 points of Momentum to add +1 to the number
of points scored.

A ssets
The advent of the Field Process shield and the lasgun with their explosive interaction,
deadly to attacker and attacked, placed the current determinatives on weapons
technology. We need not go into the special role of atomics. The fact that any
Family in my Empire could so deploy its atomics as to destroy the planetary bases
of fifty or more other Families causes some nervousness, true. But all of us possess
precautionary plans for devastating retaliation. Guild and Landsraad contain the keys
which hold this force in check. No, my concern goes to the development of humans as
special weapons. Here is a virtually unlimited field which a few powers are developing.
—Muad'Dib: Lecture to the War College from The Stilgar Chronicle

s mentioned in Chapter 6: Conflict,
characters employ assets to manipulate
and overcome opponents and obstacles
during difficult situations. These assets
come in a wide variety of forms and types,
ranging from personal items like knives, shield belts,
portable poison snoopers, or symbols of office; vehicles
such as ornithopters and groundcars; to the service of
groups of servants or soldiers, or agents like spies and
informants; or resources such as valuable goods or raw
materials. Assets may also take the form of information known about an enemy, rumors spread to discredit
them, or similarly intangible advantages.

Assets are merely tools for the characters’ goals; what
matters is how they are used. This is not merely a matter
of the skill with which those tools and resources are
employed, but also the ends to which they are employed.

S tr u ct u re
o f a n A sset
All assets share a common structure that lets you see
what they’re useful for and how effective they are at a
glance. These elements are described below.
Functionally, an asset works as a trait (see p.143-144
& p.164) with the asset’s name. The other details of an
asset are there to provide extra context and differentiation between assets. Each describes a tool, resource, or
something else useful which a character possesses.
These assets are used during a conflict (as described in
Chapter 6: Conflict) to overcome opponents and obstacles just like traits, usually in the following ways:

@ To make a task easier, reducing the difficulty (such as
using a weapon to attack an opponent rather than
bare hands).
@ To make a task harder for an opponent (such as using
a blade or shield to parry an attack).
Some assets are tangible—representing physical things,
from weapons and other small possessions, to vehicles
such as groundcars and ornithopters, to squads of troops
and the services of agents and other subordinates.
Others are intangible, representing contacts, favors, the
ability to call upon friends, and similar useful things which
have no physical presence in their own right.
Additionally, some assets are hard to come by and must
be either purchased or provided specially by the character’s patrons or House. These are usually expensive or
use advanced technology such as shields and ornithopters. If a character is trying to create such as asset during

play the gamemaster may not allow it without a good
reason why they would have access to such a thing.
Other assets can be considered ubiquitous and are
freely available almost everywhere, and easily brought
into a scene with a Momentum/Threat spend.
When characters choose their starting assets, or gain
assets with advancement, and they opt for a ubiquitous
asset as one of their starting assets it should also have
another aspect that will grant it a broader range of
useful applications, such as the following:

@ The asset can be easily concealed.
@ A sign of sigil on the asset proves the owner has the
backing of someone powerful.

@ The asset has a secret compartment.
@ The asset can be used as another asset (such as the
way a crysknife represents more than just a weapon
to the Fremen).

An asset’s name will normally serve as a basic description of what the asset is. This name will normally provide
some clues as to the circumstances where the asset will
be useful—a dagger is obviously be of some use in single
combat, for example—but this may not be the whole story.

Keywords provide an additional context for how an
asset may function and the situations where it may be
useful. An asset may have 2–3 keywords, most of which
may only be a single word. The keywords don’t do anything themselves—there are no specific rules which refer
to them—but they can be useful prompts when determining if or how an asset applies to a situation. Knowing
that a particular asset is a ranged weapon tells you the
circumstances where it is useful (and the ones where it
isn’t, such as if an enemy is shielded).

C re ati n g a n d
D e v el o pi n g A ssets
In addition to knowing how assets work, it is necessary
to know who has which assets.

@ Main player characters begin play with three assets,
as described on p.122.

@ Notable supporting characters have a single asset
each, created the first time they appear.

@ Minor supporting characters have no assets, except
at the gamemaster’s discretion, such as when assets
would be necessary for the character to perform
their duties.

@ Non-player characters have whichever assets the
gamemaster wants or needs them to have, with
some consideration as to the kinds of resources a
given non-player character has access to.
Beyond these initial assets, characters can obtain assets
in several ways during play.

A ssets a n d T r a its
All characters can attempt to create assets in play, in the
same way that they can attempt to create Keywords:
at their core, assets are essentially just a slightly more
detailed form of trait.
As noted in Chapter 5: Core Rules, a character can
create a trait by spending 2 points of Momentum (normally after a successful test, but the gamemaster may
waive this requirement), or by succeeding at a skill test
with a Difficulty set by the gamemaster (normally 2).
These common methods can be used to obtain assets
as well, though the context of the skill test will determine what kinds of assets you’re able to create.
Intangible assets can be created in most situations, as
they have no physical form and thus tend to represent
the benefits of position, information gained, contacts,
favors, and similar benefits. What kind of intangible
assets are created depends on the circumstances and
the actions taken: creating an asset based on positioning requires moving to an advantageous position, while
creating an asset based on a favor from someone else
requires convincing that person to perform a favor for
your character.
The drawback to this is that intangible assets are often
easier to lose: they can be taken from your character or
rendered useless with relative ease, because they are
intangible. Knowledge can be invalidated, positions can
be lost, contacts may turn away from you, those who
owe favors may refuse to give aid, and so forth. This
won’t happen unless the gamemaster has a non-player
character take action against your character or through
the spending of Threat (and even then, there must be a
reason for your character to lose an asset), but it is a risk
worth considering.
Tangible assets are a little trickier to create because
they have physical presence—they are substantive,
physical things which exist, such as spice. You can reasonably only create a tangible asset during a scene if…

conceal on their person or within the environment
(if they’ve been there before or had time to
prepare), such as a concealed blade, or a squad
of troops using camouflage or disguise. Your
character is assumed to have obtained the asset
at some undisclosed earlier time, without anyone
else knowing.
However you choose to create an asset, the asset is
created with keywords chosen by the gamemaster (you
may suggest keywords, but the gamemaster’s ruling is
final here; you get to choose the kinds of assets you
create, but the gamemaster gets to define the specifics), and it has a Quality of 0. You may, when creating
an asset, spend 2 points of Momentum to increase the
asset’s Quality to 1, to represent obtaining a betterthan-average asset.

D e t e r m i n at i o n
and Assets
One method of creating a trait is by spending
Determination. This is just as useful for creating
assets, though these factors are worth considering:

@ Assets created with Determination have a
basic Quality of 1, or 2 if you spend 2 points of
Momentum to increase the asset’s Quality.

@ Tangible assets are considered to have been
obtained previously and are only being
revealed now; you must give a brief description
of how you obtained the item.

@ Assets created with Determination remain in
play for the remainder of the current session.
This means that assets created using Determination are often more significant and effective than
most newly-created assets and require a little
more thought be put into their creation. Because
you must describe how your character obtained
the item, this is an ideal opportunity to reveal or
elaborate upon some aspect of your character, particularly if it relates to the drive statement you used
when you spent the Determination.

@ Your character could normally obtain that asset.
Perhaps your character gained the asset in trade,
or by leveraging your House’s wealth, status, and
resources. Maybe your character simply found it in
the environment where the scene is taking place.

@ Your character could reasonably have already
obtained the asset and simply be revealing it now.
The asset must be something your character could

At the end of a scene, any assets you created which
no longer serve a purpose—such as intangible assets
based on observations which are no longer relevant or
based on positioning on a battlefield your character is
no longer on—are discarded. Any assets remaining will
stay until the end of the current adventure.

Q ua lit y
Some assets have a Quality rating if they are of a
better Quality than usual. An ordinary example of any
particular asset, even a rare one, has a Quality of 0.
An ornithopter is no better than a knife as a knife isn’t
much use if you need to fly, just like an ornithopter is
only useful to escape a duel. So, a knife with a Quality rating is better-balanced, more durable, or sharper
than an ordinary knife. An ornithopter with Quality is
faster, easier to handle, or stronger than a standard
ornithopter. The higher the Quality, the more advanced
or special the asset is.

Quality does not just apply to objects and weapons.
Documents with Quality are more complete or damning
when used for blackmail or intrigue. Soldiers, servants
of criminals in your character’s employ may be better
trained or better equipped. Favors are more clearly
defined and harder to ignore when called upon. Any
asset can have Quality, tangible, intangible, or ubiquitous, but where a Quality is not noted it is 0.
An asset’s Quality determines how effective the asset
is when used in a conflict. This takes several forms, and
different types of conflict may refer to asset Quality for
different purposes. Commonly, if you’re using an asset
to overcome an extended task, then the asset’s Quality

determines how much progress you make towards that
task’s requirement with each successful skill test.
In any circumstance where you’re making a skill test
with an asset and the asset’s Quality has no other effect
within the rules (for that specific test), then the gamemaster may allow you to generate bonus Momentum
on a successful test equal to the asset’s Quality. This is
purely at the gamemaster’s discretion and applies only
when the gamemaster feels it would make sense.
Quality can be increased as a character advances. The
character can improve their equipment and do the same
for those that serve them, who may also grow in their
skills and training. Physical items might be improved
with better technology, sharpened, or even have
secret compartments of poison edges added. An asset
might even just be swapped out for a newer and more
advanced model. Intangible assets can be grown by
gains in the character’s reputation or further study into
their enemies to make one’s leverage more powerful.
Servants, spies, and soldiers can undergo better training
or be given better equipment.

A d va n ceme n t
Your character’s assets, or at least the most potent and
significant of them, will stay with them and may even
grow and develop over time. This represents time and
effort invested to refine and improve upon their tools
and expand their resources. However, your character
can only maintain a finite number of assets in this way,
as upkeep and maintenance become an increasingly
large drain on time.
Your character may have a total of five permanent
assets, though you can increase this number through
purchasing certain talents.
At the end of an adventure, after purchasing advancements, you may take any of the following actions to
maintain your assets:

@ You may choose to keep any assets you created
during the previous adventure, up to your character’s
maximum limit.

@ If your character is at their maximum number of
assets, you may discard any number of them to make
room for new assets you have created.

@ You may select one of your assets and increase its
Quality by 1 by spending a number of advancement
points equal to twice the new Quality of the asset
(i.e., if you’re increasing an asset from Quality 2 to
3, it costs 3 to 6 advancement points). The asset’s
name and/or keywords may be updated when you
change the Quality, to reflect how the asset has
been improved.

o help you create and understand the array
of available assets, we offer the following
examples of items and technology to be
found throughout the Imperium. We have
divided them along the same lines as the
types of conflict, to make it easier to see how they might
apply. But any asset can be used for any purpose in the
right situation. It is up to each player to try and consider
how best to use the assets at their command.

@ Personal assets are items that can be carried by

individual characters. They apply most often in agent
level play. Weapons of this type might be used in a
personal duel or a skirmish conflict.

@ Warfare assets are items too large for one person and

turn a skirmish into a battlefield. They are usually heavy
ordnance, soldiers, or vehicles.

@ Espionage assets are used for assassination, stealth,

and information gathering. They come in a variety
of forms: some may be personal items, other may
be intangible ones, some are agents, spies and even
Face Dancers. These assets often suit both agent and
architect level play.

@ Intrigue assets are used in social occasions and are

often intangible assets. They are based on favor, debts,
and reputation, but also include informers and servants.

The most commonly used firearm in the Imperium. These
continuous wave-laser projectors are fitted into either pistols
or rifles, enhancing their range. The beam forms a tight,
narrow laser that can be widened, reducing the strength
while increasing the area impacted.
Lasguns use an energy cell capable of firing 30 shots before
needing to be replaced. The number of shots is based on
the narrow beam setting, and wider beams require additional energy. The universe is filled with lasguns, befitting
the planet, culture, and group using them, making countless variants available for purchase. They are expensive and
sometimes unreliable, and the reaction with shields makes
them often undesirable in mass combat, when a stray shot
could have catastrophic results.
As an Asset: Lasguns are the conventional method of
combat and can be used to destroy obstacles.
Keywords: Laser, Ranged Weapon

The maula pistol is an assassin’s weapon. These pistols have
a spring-loaded trigger and can launch poison darts or other
projectiles with considerable accuracy up to 40 meters.
They originate from change to beginning of the
Faufreluches' period and are closely related to stunners.
The needle gun is a variant of the maula pistol.
As an Asset: The silent nature of the maula pistol makes
it an excellent choice for assassinations.
Keywords: Concealable, Ranged Weapon, Quiet
P ers o n a l A ssets :

Blades are as ancient as Old Terra and are just as critical for
defense now as then. The creation of the personal shield
has elevated them into common use. Blades come in a
variety of shapes, sizes, and forms. Types of blades include
daggers, swords, and rapiers, but many other specialized or
culturally specific blades exist.
Since ancient times, numerous new versions of traditional
blades have arisen, sometimes crafted from new material,
sometimes combined with new technology. Most modern
blades are crafted with plasteel or damasteel.
As an Asset: If used correctly, can penetrate a shield, and

thus are a common part of a hand-to-hand combat attack.
Some blades are presented as parts of ceremonies, used
to signify rank and status. Historically they are known to be
given as a diplomatic gift between warring factions.
Keywords: Melee Weapon (different sizes and forms of
blade may have additional keywords)

These tiny, well-crafted blades are used for personal
defense and are commonly used by assassins. While not
useful for cutting, they are exceptional for stabbing attacks.
Several noted cutpurses use them as an aid in their crimes.
As an Asset: The bodkin is easily concealed in a wrist
sheath and easily disposed of before capture.
Keywords: Concealable, Melee Weapon, Quiet

This sacred blade of the Fremen is crafted from the
tooth of a dead sandworm. An average crysknife possesses a 0.2-meter curved milky-white double blade
with a finger-ridged handle. Sometimes the tip of the
blade is coated with a deadly, fast-acting poison.
Part of the Fremen tradition surrounding the blade states
that one can never be re-sheathed without first drawing blood. Additionally, outsiders are not allowed to
view these blades, and if they do, the blade is cleansed
through a long ritual or the outsider being put to death.
Crysknives come primarily in two types: unfixed and fixed.
Unfixed blades must stay close to a person’s electrical field,
or they will disintegrate. Fixed blades are treated with a
unique process that allows them to be stored.
As an Asset: A crysknife is a status symbol for an outsider among Fremen to show that one is a friend. They
are an effective weapon against shielded opponents.
Keywords: Melee Weapon, Sacred
Quality: Even the least crysknives has a Quality 1, and
the poison used may increase the Quality further.

These large curve-bladed knives range from 18–22 cm
long. Their use is common among all noble houses who
have been taught in their use since the earliest days of
the Faufreluches. The ability of these blades to safely
bypass shields has increased their popularity to the
point that they are commonplace.
As an Asset: The kindjal can cut through personal shields
and can be used in artistic displays of sword use. Many
noble Houses engrave the hilts with their House emblem.
Keywords: Long Blade, Melee Weapon, Traditional

The pulse-sword is a melding of two different worlds:
the medieval and the technologically advanced. These
blades use vibrations to amplify the attacking power
of the sword wielder, but as a result are rarely used on
Arrakis due to the possibility of attracting sandworms.
As an Asset: The vibration effect of the blade disrupts
thinking machine gelcircuitry.
Keywords: Disruptive, Melee Weapon, Vibro-blade
P ers o n a l A ssets :

These durable and versatile cloaks are a boon to survivalists. The jubba cloak is a flowing cloak with various
styles and functions. The cloaks are easily converted into
a hammock or make-shift tent and regulate temperatures by absorbing or radiating heat.
As an Asset: The compact cloak appears like any other
cloak and goes unnoticed until used. While mainly a survival tool, the cloaks are sometimes woven with intricate
designs and worn as a status symbol.
Keywords: Adaptable, Fashion, Survival

The Holtzman shield is named for the creator of the Holtzman effect, used to create a protective field of energy
around a larger area such as a castle, or in some cases a
planet. Shields are a common defense for facilities and
make the use of lasguns deadly for all sides engaging in the
battle, due to the unpredictable interaction of the resultant
explosion. A shield can provide protection for more substantial areas, making them much harder to penetrate.
As an Asset: Shields are affordable for those of means,
and always a factor when determining strategies
against House operatives and soldiers. Their use on
Arrakis is limited, as the vibration attracts the worms in
a violent rage.
Keywords: Atomic, Impervious, Static Defense
Special: No high-velocity attack can bypass a shield, and
it requires colossal amounts of firepower to overwhelm
one. Lasguns are as risky to use against emplaced shields
as against personal ones. See p.23 for more information
about the interaction of lasguns and shields.

create a protective field of energy around a person. The
shields quickly became commonly used for personal
defense. While shields provide incredible protection,
they allow slow-moving objects to pass through them—
otherwise, the users would suffocate without atmospheric gasses such as oxygen. The evolution of the
shields has allowed them to protect one side or one half
of the body. To date, no one has been able to have the
shields protect only a single limb or appendage.
Shields are affordable for most Houses and are commonplace with nobles and their retainers, with even
some merchants able to have one. Holtzman shields
are the primary reason for the move to more medieval
forms of combat involving melee weapons. Their use on
Arrakis is limited, as the vibration attracts the sandworms and puts them in a violent rage.
As an Asset: Shields are used for defense and can be
used to threaten someone with a lasgun if activated.
Keywords: Atomic, Defense, Protection
Special: Ranged attacks cannot harm a character protected by a personal shield. If a shield is struck by a lasgun,
either the shield or the lasgun (randomly determined)
will produce an atomic explosion; using such methods of
destruction upon a human population is strictly forbidden.

A variant of the personal shield, the semi-shield is a shield
built to protect only a part of the body, usually the upper
torso or half of the upper torso and one leg. Also called
a half-shield. These are often used in gladiatorial games
or with light sparring, where an additional level of skill is
utilized to strike areas not covered by the semi-shield.
As an Asset: As with regular shields, semi-shields are
used for defense and can be used to threaten someone
with a lasgun if activated.
Keywords: Atomic, Defense, Protection
Special: It is more difficult to harm a character armed
with a semi-shield with ranged combat, and special care
must be taken to strike the portion not protected by
the shield. In each case, the Difficulty is increased by +1
step. If a shield is struck by a lasgun, either the shield
or the lasgun (randomly determined) will produce an
atomic explosion; using such methods of destruction
upon a human population is strictly forbidden.
As a semi-shield doesn’t protect the whole body
unlike most defensive assets it can be moved into any
personal zone of the user as they shift position to make
the best use of its protection.

body fluids. The stillsuit processes these fluids by filtering
impurities, recycling captured fluids into drinkable water
collected in catchpockets, which is drunk through a tube.
The key components of the stillsuit are filt-plug (collects
moisture from exhaled air), faceflap (face mask that protects the wearer from fine dust), catchtube (connects the
catchpockets), and stillsuit cap or hood.
As an Asset: An operable stillsuit allows the wearer to
function for weeks in the desert by collecting water as it is
lost by the body. Each stillsuit is finely-crafted, with multiple plated layers. The average stillsuit wearer loses 2.7 ml
of water per day. Better Quality suits can reduce this.
Keywords: Arrakis, Fremen, Survival
P ers o n a l A ssets :

The planetary universal system that connects
communications.
As an Asset: Communinet is essential in relaying information on a universal scale. The communication system
can be hacked and used as a weapon against other
Houses.
Keywords: Communication, Information, Universal

The secrecy of the Ixians led to the creation of these
devices to nullify eavesdroppers. These small tools usually cover a dome of roughly a 10-meter area. Larger
Ixian dampers increase the dome’s sphere of influence
and counteract countermeasures.
As an Asset: The damper ensures the privacy of conversations (as a defensive asset against listening agents
of devices). It can also be employed offensively if used
while an opponent is attempting to communicate with
distant allies.
Keywords: Countermeasure, Privacy, Technology

Emergency transmitters are small, coin-sized devices
possessing limited range to alert others that the user
needs help. The devices are frequently worn by nobles
and high-ranking officials when they are in the field.
More paranoid wearers always keep them on hand, with
a security contingent ready to respond.
The signal is sent back to a relay station or communicator possessed by the reinforcements. The larger the
relay station, the more range the signal has.
As an Asset: The emergency transmitter is a useful tool
for alerting others or calling in reinforcements. Smaller

groups frequently carry multiple transmitters and receivers to minimize lack of communication.
Keywords: Communication, Concealable, Tiny
Special: Use of an emergency transmitter is often a good
justification for creating assets that represent extra troops.

The filmbook is an imprint of shigawire that uses mnemonic pulses to train students. The exact subject varies
per book, though shigawire is only found on Salusa
Secundus and III Delta Kaising.
As an Asset: Noble Houses and other elite people use
them for training their younger House and Guild members.
Keywords: Mnemonic, Shigawire, Training

As an Asset: The baradye pistol is a covert weapon
useful in relaying messages and distracting others.
Keywords: Arrakis, Fremen, Signaling

A malleable, flexible black mask created by the Ixians.
When placed over a wearer’s face, it completely conceals all their features. The device does not emit any
energy readings. When using the hood, the wearer
appears as a regular person in passing and looks different when viewed a second or third time.
As an Asset: A cibus hood enables its user to easily
escape notice and blend into crowds.

The technological masters of Ix built these tiny handheld
black squares to store written messages. The originator
writes a message on the square with a needle, one word
on top of the next until the message is compete as the
box absorbs each word. The message is read by nerve
receptors, with the recipient seeing the message flash
before their eyes.
As an Asset: The devices can only be cracked by
extremely advanced technology.

Keywords: Disguise, Infiltration, Technology

These devices are commonly found on Arrakis. The dew
collector is a small egg-shaped tool that collects the
morning dew for later use.
As an Asset: Dew collectors are one of the ways to
maintain life on the planet.
Keywords: Arrakis, Survival, Water

Keywords: Infiltration, Secrecy, Technology

Ridulian crystals redefined books, as each sheet of a
page made of this crystal is only a few molecules thick.
Due to the compressed state of the book, they can only
be used with an automatic page-turner in the spine of
the book.
A single volume of a book with an excess of thousands
of pages would be a little over 1 cm thick.
As an Asset: A useful tool to convey large amounts of information without requiring much space to accommodate it.
Also, for easy transport and disposal of the data if needed.
Keywords: Crystal, Knowledge, Skills
Quality: Special (the Quality depends on the contents of
the book and the usefulness of the information it contains).
P ers o n a l A ssets :

coloration for several hours before disappearing. The
zone has many uses, from signaling traders or spice raiders to capturing sandworms.

Baradye pistols are produced on Arrakis by the Fremen
to communicate. The pistol fires a static charge capable
of turning a large, 20-meter-diameter area orange (or
another color if programmed). The charge retains the

A desert survival kit created by the Fremen. The kit has all
the tools need to survive for roughly a month on Arrakis.
It commonly includes a manual, paracompass, stilltent,
maker hooks, emergency stillsuit patches, and thumper.
As an Asset: The kit’s primary purpose is to allow
someone to survive in the desert for a short period. The
emergency stillsuit patches can be used to temporarily
repair tears in a stillsuit for roughly a day.
Keywords: Desert, Fremen, Survival

These small devices use the Holtzman effect to hover
near the user, providing illumination. The color of the
light differs based on when it was constructed, and it is
powered by an organic battery. They are easily switched
on or off with a touch.
As an Asset: Glowglobes are used to illuminate areas of
darkness, as distractions, and possibly as a concealable
explosive delivery system.
Keywords: Hovering, Light

ite. Attempting to escape being bound with the fiber
instead reinforces the bonds.
As an Asset: A Krimskel fiber rope can be used to bind
prisoners or even as a device to secure doors when tried
to pull open.

As an Asset: Paracompasses are essential to locate directions and determine which way to travel in the wilds.

These narrow metallic shafts are used to open a gap
within a sandworm’s ring segments, exposing the lessarmored hide beneath to the elements. Once pried open,
the sandworm rolls onto its side to avoid sand getting in
between the exposed flesh between the ring segments.
This allows the user to get on top of the sandworm and
guide the beast to wherever the rider wishes.
As an Asset: Maker hooks can be used to guide sandworms into enemy locations or travel great distances
across Arrakis.
Keywords: Fremen, Sandworm, Transportation

These small-to-medium-sized locks are usable on objects
up to the size of a warehouse door. Each lock is keyed
to a specific person’s palm or a genetic type (such as a
Bene Gesserit). Anyone else must pick the lock to open it.
Higher Quality locks are more challenging to pick.
As an Asset: A palm lock is a versatile tool to secure locks
and can aid in escapes by locking a door while escaping.
Keywords: Encoded, Security, Tool

Poison has long been the preferred assassination method
of nobles since Old Terra. It is hard to detect, difficult to
identify who one’s actual enemy is, and tougher still to
prove who used it. Poisons typically come in two forms:
food (chaumas) and drink (chaumurky). Countless deaths
from poisoning led to the invention of poison snoopers
that replaced food tasters. These mechanical devices scan
edible substances before they are ingested. Both Ix and
Richese are the primary manufacturers of poisons snoopers; however, the continued Ixian propaganda has most of
the public believing their models are more sensitive.
Poison snoopers come in two forms. The first is a portable version that is a handheld box with an extendable
hose that is placed over the substance. An alarm sounds if
the snooper detects poison. More advanced models have
the option to vibrate rather than emit an audible noise,
facilitating concealed use. A larger form of poison snooper
is installed on rooftops, usually above eating rooms, and is
always active. Fixed alarms continuously emit an ear-piercing sound elevating in frequency every minute.

As an Asset: Poison snoopers are excellent for defense
and for use in safeguarding endangered people.
Keywords: Detection, Security, Technology
Quality: To make matter easier the gamemaster may
rule that a poison snooper automatically detects any
poison asset in play of the same or lower Quality.

A juice created from the roots of plants on the planet
Ecaz. The juice is refined into a high-energy drink that
amplifies mental powers.
As an Asset: Sapho is addictive if used repeatedly and
leaves tell-tale signs by staining one’s mouth and lips a
ruby color. It is favored by Mentats.

A device wrought by the folk of Ix, the Ixian probe allows
the user to scan and replicate the electrochemical signals
in a human brain—living or dead—making a copy of
personality traits, sense experience, and memory for later
reference. The probe itself is a moderately-sized device,
and requires sensors be attached to the intended subject,
and an operator working while the process is ongoing.
The stored information is compiled into a simulacrum, a
digital 'duplicate' of the original subject, which responds
to stimulus in the same fashion, answering queries or
providing answers. These simulacrums are often disoriented, and if created without permission, can be angry
and uncooperative. It is rumored that this technology
allows Tleilaxu to create gholas, copies of living persons
whose minds have been copied with Ixian probes.
Note that the simulacrum is not a thinking machine in
and of itself but is in fact merely a means of recovering
information and responses. Simulacrums are necessarily limited in their ability to have original thoughts and
to learn, unable to form neural pathways that duplicate
human learning and actual cognitive development.
Many within the Imperium feel that the distinction is
irrelevant, and that the device skirts the limits of what is
allowed under the Butlerian Edicts. Due to its immense
potential for espionage, the Ixian probe is considered a
loathsome innovation to most civilized people and is not
generally used, even by the most amoral of spymasters.
The most reliable means of circumventing duplication by
an Ixian probe is consuming a drug called shere, which
disrupts the probe’s ability to collect information, rendering the data useless. Upon death, shere also causes rapid
deterioration of the nervous system of the one who took it,
rending all further attempts impossible. Shere has no other
practical applications and due to its side effects, is not commonly used as a precaution, despite its efficacy.
A later innovation, the T-Probe, is able to copy the
memories of a person even if they have consumed
shere, but causes incredible, frequently lethal amounts
of pain to its subject.
As an Asset: An Ixian probe can copy a living or recentlydeceased human being and allow access to a digital
simulacrum of them, as if speaking to them in person.
Keywords: Ixian, Knowledge, Secret Information,
Technology,

This airtight tent works similar to the stillsuit by capturing the humidity inside of it and gathering it for use
by the tenant. These are frequently used under a layer
or two of sand. The tents use sandsnorks (installed air
tubes) to provide air to the interior of the tent.
As an Asset: Stilltents are essential for traveling on the
surface of Arrakis and are commonly used by Fremen.
Keywords: Fremen, Sealed, Survival

Personal suspensors are frequently placed into belts,
chairs, and other portable objects. These devices operate on the secondary (low drain) phase of the Holtzman
field generator and nullify local gravity. The height and
mass of the energy consumed is based on the weight
of the object lifted. Personal suspensors do not have
the power to allow flight or stop falls from very high
distances before running out of power. This application
of the field was pioneered by Norma Cenva in the creation of the glowglobes during her tenure working for Tio
Holtzman.
As an Asset: Personal suspensors can be used as transportation, for carrying heavy objects, or moving large
forms of ordinance.
Keywords: Anti-gravity, Holtzman, Mobility

A simple device used to summon sandworms on Arrakis.
The thumper is composed of a spring-loaded clapper
on a short stake that repeatedly strikes the ground.
Delayed thumpers exist which have a candle attached
to them that burns for one hour before activating the
thumper. Longer candles can be used to extend the
duration, with an increased change of failure for each
additional fifteen minutes.
As an Asset: The thumper is useful in calling or distracting sandworms. The device can be used to cause mass
destruction by having the sandworm appear in an area.
Keywords: Arrakis, Sandworm

Warfare on Arrakis has little resemblance to
warfare on nearly any other planet in the Imperium.
Everywhere in the Imperium shields are ubiquitous,
cheap, and easy to produce, and have been common
for over a thousand years. Thus, ranged warfare as
was commonly practiced throughout history is nearly
extinct.
Military units of the Houses of the Landsraad
use ranged weapons almost exclusively against
unshielded rebellious and riotous commoner
populations. Soldiers without shields are utterly
outclassed at every turn and can be easily destroyed
by shielded infantry. Thus, ranged military tactics like
enfilading fire, covering fire, bounding overwatch, air
support, missile and bombing attacks of entrenched
positions, and other tactics or strategies have almost
disappeared.
Warfare between the Houses, in most of the
Imperium, involves little to no space combat, as the
Spacing Guild severely restricts such warfare in fear
of damaging their precious Heighliners. It does,
however, involve large units of shielded and meleearmed foot soldiers being transported to and from
strategic locations by massive shielded transports.
Troops then fight in largely melee formations to
wrest control of these locations from the defenders,
who are also shielded melee troops. Shielded
ornithopters are used as scouts to follow and observe
the movements of troops and transports and report
said intelligence to command. Strategic locations
themselves are shielded to prevent artillery strikes or
bombardment.
Conversely, on Arrakis, shield technology is difficult
to use, as shields of any size attract the attention of
enraged sandworms, and the weather conditions of
constant dust particles, frequent sandstorms, and
high static electricity make shields unreliable and
difficult to maintain. As has often been the case,
militaries deployed upon Arrakis are slow to adapt
and learn how to fight on the planet. Of course, the
planet’s long-time inhabitants, the Fremen, have
adapted to their terrain and learned effective tactics
and strategies, and learned how to fight asymmetrical
wars against standing militaries.

Strategic or House Holtzman shields, which derive their
name from the Holtzman effect, are large shields that
project an energy field around strategic sites. Personal
shields also exist, but they cannot begin to compare
to the strength of these massive defenses that would
require energy levels like that of a crashing spaceship,
comet, or meteorite to cause the shield to fail. They are
used to defend massive fortresses and small cities from
all forms of high-speed projectiles, from bombardments
down to small arms fire.
As an Asset: A shield is a House-level asset whose
control can change the tide of a battle. Widely used
throughout the Imperium, on Arrakis they are only used
within the Imperial Basin, as sandworms are not found
there; if used elsewhere on the planet, sandworms
would be attracted to their vibrations and attack.

The danger to spice production not withstanding, war and large scale combat on Arrakis is
exceptionally difficult. Heavy tracked vehicles
and the recoil of large ordinance create tremors
and vibrations that the great sandworms can feel
from miles away. This is to say nothing of shields,
which enrage the worms and make them attack.
The worms are among the most deadly things on
Arrakis, and while the Houses have many powerful
weapons, few can swallow an entire army whole.

As an Asset: A bunker is a tactical asset used to secure
and give a bonus to defensive units and characters.
It defends a smaller but critical location, like the only
bridge that crosses a river for miles, or temporary
defenses built to hold difficult ground recently won in a
battle.
Keywords: Defensive, Heavy Cover, Tactical

Because they can be defended by strategic shields,
fortified locations like castles and fortresses—places
that rely on defensive architecture designed to impede
melee armed ground troops—have become the standard form of defense of strategic locations throughout
the Imperium and even on Arrakis. On Arrakis, only the
Imperial Basin combines fortresses with shields, but the
various Fremen sietches throughout the planet are also
fortified against both conventional and nonconventional
attacks.
As an Asset: Another strategic asset, fortresses and
their control play a major role in who controls a planet,
and who can lay claim to ownership of a territory in front
of the Landsraad and the Emperor. They are designed
to impede and kill attackers while still allowing access
for regular business during peaceful times.

Conscripts are the lowest of the low. Soldiers assembled
with little to no training and bad or non-existent equipment. They almost never have shields and are armed
with a combination of ranged weapons and shoddy
melee weapons. These soldiers could be used to represent rebelling peasants, escaped slaves, or conscripted
prisoners meant to tie up enemy forces while other
soldiers maneuver into flanking positions.
As an Asset: Used to distract, hinder, or slow down an
enemy force, or to attack unprepared enemy locations
only defended by noncombatants.
Keywords (choose three): Expendable, Poor Training,
Ranged Weapons, or Unshielded
Quality: 0 (larger units may have higher Quality).

Bunkers, pillboxes, entrenched positions, or any sort of
fortified location, shielded or not, are smaller defensive
structures intended to slow or stop attackers. They are
smaller than fortresses and can be created quickly with
an entrenching tool. At times, more complex permanent bunkers are built in a place too small to secure
with a full-sized fortress—for example, at a bridge with
limited banks on either side suitable for construction.
Bunkers are also used to defend temporary systems like
undermining operations designed to penetrate shielded
fortresses from below the ground.

These are the standard line infantry used throughout the
Imperium: shielded soldiers armed with melee weapons and trained to fight efficiently in large formations
of a thousand men or more. They learn how to defend
quickly and attack slowly, move in formation together,
and pin and flank other formations.
As an Asset: This asset represents a trained unit from a
small squad up to a large brigade of soldiers.
Keywords: Formation, Melee Weapons, Shielded
Quality: 1 (larger units may have higher Quality).

Specialist troops represent any unit of soldiers not meant
for main line combat. Engineers, sappers, military police/
security, technicians, mechanics, special operations,
drivers, scouts, or even a squadron of pilots without their
‘thopters are all military specialists who don’t usually fight
on the front lines of conventional Imperium battles.
As an Asset: This usually represents a standard unit of
specialist soldiers large enough to complete their usual
specialty task. Designate what their specialty trait is
when they are acquired.
Keywords: Shielded, Special Equipment: ______, Specialty: ______, or Well-armed
Quality: 2 (larger numbers may increase Quality)

The elite House guard of the Great Houses of the Landsraad. Most of these units are a small elite force meant as an
honor guard or security detail to defend the ruler and their
immediate family. However, some powerful military-minded
Houses may have entire regiments. The Imperial Sardaukar
are one such army, and the Fremen Fedaykin are another.
As an Asset: This unit represents a generic elite guard
of soldiers who have sworn an oath to defend their
lieges unto death. They receive all the best training,
equipment, and benefits of any soldiers.
Keywords: Elite Morale, Formation, Melee Weapons,
Shielded
Quality: 3–4

These massive shielded vehicles are designed to ferry
troops across planetary surfaces and are as varied and
unique as the planets they are designed to traverse.
Most are wheel-based, although walkers, treaded, and
even anti-gravity variants are not uncommon. These
also range in size from squad-based carriers to massive
shielded land ships that carry companies or even a full
regiment of soldiers.
As an Asset: A fleet of these vehicles is usually maintained by a House so that they can transport troops
quickly to various strategic places within their territory.
Smaller vehicles are more common.
Keywords: All-terrain, Shielded, Troop Transport
Quality: Larger carriers carry more troops

incorporate a Holtzman effect to function, they are rare
on Arrakis, although Glossu Rabban Harkonnen used
one as bait when he hunted a sandworm.
As an Asset: These can be used as short-range transportation for troops or other supplies, and often are
little more than a platform built with a shield, anti-gravity generators, and a control console.
Keywords: Anti-gravity, Flatbed, Shielded

Naval transports carry troops and supplies across large
bodies of water or up rivers at times when traveling by
air or orbital transports would be strategically unsound.
These ships have changed little from the eras before
humanity took the stars. The major difference is the
inclusion of a shield to discourage attacks. They can
range from small patrol boats to massive cargo transports designed to carry tens of thousands of troops.
As an Asset: These can be used as waterborne transportation for troops or other supplies when air or orbital
travel is unwise or prohibited.
Keywords: Naval, Shielded

massive cargo aircraft able to carry troops or supplies.
In the case of larger ornithopters, jet engines may be
deployed to assist with speed and lift.
As an Asset: Ornithopters can be used to gather intelligence in warfare as well as move troops and attack
both air and ground targets. As espionage devices they
allow quiet observation of a target as well as providing
a fast and subtle way to escape an area. An exceptionally lavish personal ornithopter might even grant some
social status. On Arrakis, they fill an expanded role
beyond just recon and transport. They can be armed
with guns, rockets, and missiles to work as close air support and air superiority, weather permitting.
Keywords (grouped by variant):

@ Attack/Arrakis: Fast, Flying, Glide, Guns, Missiles,
Quiet, Rockets, Size: Small

Most often seen as air transport for spice harvesters on
Arrakis, carryalls are the air transportation workhorse of the
Imperium military and civilian sectors. These massive craft,
essentially large-scale ornithopters, use a variety of flight
systems—from modified ornithopter wings, to jet, rocket,
and anti-gravity systems—to quickly travel across the skies
of the planets of the Imperium. Designs of carryalls vary
based on their intended cargo. Personnel carryalls appear
much like massed civilian air transports. Internal cargo carryalls have similar but bulkier builds compared to personnel carryalls, while external cargo carryalls, like the ones
used on Arrakis to pick up and transport spice harvesters,
appear to be not much more than a large frame with flight
systems attached and various cargo clamps for holding the
specialty cargo during transport. Cargo carryalls as used
in spice mining usually have room for only four crew: two
pilots and two journeymen attachers.
As an Asset: Depending on the design of a carryall,
they excel at transporting cargo or personnel across
planets at suborbital altitudes. These workhorses are
employed by spice smugglers on Arrakis to quickly
come and go from illicit spice harvesting operations in
the deep deserts.
Keywords: Cargo Space, Flying, Shielded, Size: Large
to Gargantuan

Artillery guns are massive cannons, often mounted on a
vehicle platform, that fire explosive shells over kilometers to soften up unshielded infantry and fortified positions. Nearly obsolete, artillery is only employed in the
rare instances when a military force is fighting against
unshielded rebels or on Arrakis, where the inability to
use shields on most of the planet makes their use a
viable military strategy.
As an Asset: These guns need to be crewed by a group
of soldiers trained in their use, but if this is done they are
very effective and can deploy a variety of warheads from
air-burst and explosive rounds designed to eviscerate
unshielded soldiers, to armor-piercing, bunker buster, and
even gas and toxin shells that can spread deadly pathogens or poisonous gases across the battlefield.
Keywords: Crew-served, Long-ranged, Shell Varieties

Rocket and missile launchers range from one-man disposable rocket-propelled grenades to large vehicle-driven
systems designed to launch masses of ‘dumb‘ rockets
or guided missiles at a variety of unshielded targets.
Guided missile systems are also deployed in anti-aircraft
roles. Much like artillery, rocket and missile launchers
have nearly gone extinct with the widespread adoption
of shields. However, they continue to be of use on Arrakis
and against unshielded targets on other planets.
As an Asset: These have been used to great success by
various factions on Arrakis over the centuries. Fremen
employ rocket-propelled grenades during raids targeting spice harvesters and other vulnerable targets. The
Harkonnen effectively used rocket and missile launchers
against the Atreides when they seized power on Arrakis.
Keywords (grouped by variant):

O t h er V e h icles
A large number and variety of other craft exist, but most are never seen during warfare. However, because of
their strategic importance three such vehicles may be found at the center of a furious battle for control. Therefore, to provide some context we have detailed them here.

The literal factory that supplies the source of Imperial
power, spice harvesters are massive mobile mining
and refining factories. They are crewed by daring
wildcat crews who work furiously to harvest as much
spice as possible from spice blows before a sandworm appears. Sandworms always appear as they
are drawn to the vibrations of the harvesters. Designs
vary, but they are often described as massive beetlelike ground vehicles that are flown into place by a
carryall. During a short period of time they send out
scout vehicles to search for the incoming worm while
drills and scoops extend to draw the spice into the
harvester to begin the refining process.
As an Asset: The rulers of Arrakis are nominally the
only ones who control spice harvesters, but smugglers and the Fremen employ their own. The Fremen,
Imperial-backed rulers, and the smugglers wage an
ongoing shadow war, striking at their opponents’
spice harvesters whenever they see an opportunity.
Thus, they are not infrequently found in the middle of
a pitched battle.
Keywords: Designed for Carryall Transport, Factory, Integral Scout Vehicles, Massive, Spice-infused, Wormcall

prohibitions placed on space warfare by the Spacing
Guild; although rare events do happen, they are generally limited. More frequently, transports may find
themselves engulfed in a mobile battle when landed
near a strategic location, or when unloading troops
transported to a planet.
As an Asset: As with the spice-harvester, these
transports are more strategic targets than tools or
weapons in their own right. However, cunning characters like Baron Harkonnen have discovered ways to
employ them as weapons.
Keywords: Cargo, Guild/House Design, Shielded,
Spacecraft, Staterooms

The Imperium exists because of spice and the Holtzman engine. The engine makes instantaneous jumps
from one location in space to another by folding the
space in between. The spice allows Spacing Guild
Navigators and Steersmen to navigate this jump
through space while controlling moon-like spacecraft
called Heighliners. These immense craft often reach
20 kilometers in length and can house hundreds of
orbital transports of all sizes at any one time. Each
day multiple Heighliners travel routes to every planet
of the Empire to keep trade flowing throughout. With
one of these ships one could easily find themselves
halfway across the Empire in a day.
As an Asset: To wrest control of a Heighliner from the
Spacing Guild would be to commit one of the highest crimes against the Empire, and one would need
to control the specialized and mutated Navigator to
even transport the ship anywhere else. But stranger
things have happened.
Keywords: Carrier, FTL Travel, Immense, Navigator
Pilot Required, Spacecraft

E spi o n a g e A ssets
W a r o f A ss a ssi n s a n d K a n ly
Conflict between Houses is inevitable. To ensure minimal collateral damage during a clash between
members of the Landsraad, a House can declare a War of Assassins. Sanctioned under the Great Convention and the Guild Peace, a War of Assassins allows Houses to battle each other by following a series
of strict rules and using only allowed weaponry as described in the Assassins’ Handbook. Dartguns and
hunter-seekers are some examples of permitted tools in this narrow definition of warfare.
Though like a War of Assassins, kanly is less an armed struggle between Houses and more like the single
combat duels of the distant past. Kanly negotiations—overseen by an appointed Judge of the Change—
or kanly challenges must follow the edicts of the Great Convention. The results of kanly are final and can
determine the fate of a House.

The Assassins’ Handbook sings the praises of the
humble dartgun. With its small, inconspicuous rounds
coated in War of Assassins-approved poisons, this small
weapon is a choice instrument for enacting political and
diplomatic change among the Landsraad. Compact and
easily hidden, dartguns make for versatile tools.
As an Asset: As they fit into the palm of a hand, up a
sleeve, or under a jacket, dartguns make for excellent,
unobtrusive defensive weapons... or tools for assassination. Coating the darts with a variety of drugs and poisons can provide a wide arsenal of options for employing these handy pieces of equipment.
Keywords: Ranged Weapon, Quiet, Small

Tiny and discreet, the flip-dart is named for the flip-cover
that hides its sharp barb. The Emperor’s elite Sardaukar
often carry a flip-dart concealed on them. With the drugor poison-covered needle hidden among their jewelry
or uniforms, Sardaukar use the flip-darts in hand-to-hand
combat to provide an arguably unfair advantage.
As an Asset: Because they are so easy to disguise,
flip-darts work well for both offense and defense. These
small weapons are incredibly versatile thanks to the
huge number of poisons and drugs available to coat
their small needles. Some spies rely on these to deliver
antidotes or to prevent themselves or others from talking under interrogation.
Keywords: Melee Weapon, Quiet, Tiny

When stealth and anonymity is paramount, assassins
employ hunter-seekers. As small as five centimeters, these
compact devices float using a suspensor. Due to the
universal prohibition on thinking machines, a hunter-seeker
requires a nearby operator to control it, and due to limited
visibility are difficult to use against immobile targets.
These Assassins’ Handbook-approved instruments tunnel
through skin and muscle to destroy hearts, brains, and
other vital organs. Noble children learn to identify these
weapons early on in their lives, and how to avoid them by
standing resolutely still.
As an Asset: Hunter-seekers are brutal and effective
weapons of assassination. However, they require a traitor or an infiltrator on the inside to guide the device.
Blackmail victims, fanatic loyalists, or highly paid mercenaries all make for good operators.
Keywords: Remote-operated, Short-ranged, Stealthy

Designed to look like a tooth, a poisoned tooth can even
fool poison snoopers and scanners. Only a close, thorough
examination will reveal its true nature. These weapons are
deadly to the target and whoever carries the tooth in their
mouth. Biting down on this instrument of doom crushes the
brittle, fake enamel and activates the nerve-shaped tablet
within, resulting in a cloud of poison gas that surrounds the
tooth’s bearer and any in the immediate area.
As an Asset: The poisoned tooth is an option of last
resort. It’s not unusual for spies to have one in their
mouths when on missions to avoid capture or interrogation. They’ve also been used in attempted assassinations when the assassin knows they will get near the
target and does not plan on surviving the encounter.
Keywords: Last Resort, Stealthy, Toxic

Shigawire comes from the Narvi narviium ground vine
found on Salusa Secundus and III Delta Kaising. Its
primary use is in holding and transmitting messages.
However, the Sardaukar were the first ones to use the
strong, thin filaments as garrotes. They now carry them
as standard issue, often blended into one’s hair or concealed elsewhere.
As an Asset: Shigawire isn’t hard to find in the Imperium, considering its varied uses in communications.
If an individual wants one for offense or defense, it’s
almost always close at hand. That also means that an
opponent has easy access, as well.

As an Asset: Those who are members of the Landsraad
are wary of both chaumas and chaumurky and make
liberal use of poison snoopers. Those who implement
chaumas and chaumurky often need to find ways to
avoid poison snoopers and the various methods of scanning for and identifying different poisons.
Keywords: Expensive, Ingestible, Stealthy

As an Asset: Though these blades have a long-established history in the Imperium and originated from ritual

On Ecaz, a planet in Alpha Centauri B, they burn elacca
wood to create this potent narcotic. It sends users into
an intense rage that suppresses an individual’s survival
instincts and changes their skin to a peculiar carrotcolored hue. Few in the Imperium choose to take this
drug of their own free will. The most common application
of this narcotic is in drugging slave-combatants for the
gladiatorial arenas. However, some soldiers do choose to
ingest it before a battle to harden their resolve.

As an Asset: A subject that has consumed shere is immune
to the effects of an Ixian probe while alive or dead. The later
T-Probe, however, is unhindered by the drug.
Keywords: Expensive, Ingestive, Obscuring, Uncommon

As an Asset: Despite the Imperium generally frowning
on the practice, some commanders have dosed their
troops to eliminate the risk of desertion before or during
an engagement. Some also suggest using it to send an
unsuspecting individual on a rampage against a target
to deflect suspicion. In the past, unwittingly drugged
victims died at the hands of those defending themselves
against elacca-enraged individuals.

TRUTHSAYER DRUG

As an Asset: For those possessing both the confidence
to believe themselves exceptional and the desire to
practice the mystical Bene Gesserit arts, the truthsayer
drugs are a powerful temptation. As such, the truthsayer
drugs can be used as currency, poison, or on a Bene
Gesserit who can enter the truthtrance.

The twisted Mentat Piter de Vries created a system
of dependence in which an individual must receive
periodic antidotes or the poison coursing through their
body will kill them over time. The victim may or may not
know about the death waiting for them. This is a savage,
but effective, method of control.
As an Asset: Residual poison may be used as blackmail
or a failsafe. The victim may act out of character to make
sure they get their antidotes on time. A victim who
doesn’t know about the residual poison may simply not
receive the antidote when their usefulness runs out.
Keywords: Drug, Expensive, Unobtrusive

Ecaz’s valuable elacca tree also produces semuta, a
highly addictive narcotic. As opposed to the frenzy that
the elacca drug causes in its users, semuta evokes a
euphoric bliss when paired with atonal semuta music. A
semuta user can counteract the effects with an antidote.
As an Asset: Many choose to use semuta as a way to
relax. However, others take advantage of the associated
addiction as a means of manipulating others through
blackmail, withholding the drug, or offering copious
amounts of the narcotic to an addict. Having a steady,
reliable supply can lead to extreme loyalty. Semuta is
also a popular currency for bribery.
Keywords: Addictive, Euphoric, Expensive, Ingestible

By falling into a truthtrance, some remarkable Bene Gesserit
Reverend Mothers have the ability to distinguish truth from
falsehood in even the most practiced liars. Though not all
Reverend Mothers need them, truthsayer drugs allow them
to enter the truthtrance. Without the control afforded by
prana-bindu training, anyone lacking the conditioning of the
Bene Gesserit taking a truthsayer drug dies a painful death.

Yet another specialty product of Ecaz, verite is a plant
that grows on only that planet. After a specific processing technique, it becomes a narcotic. Verite smashes
through a user’s willpower, compelling them to tell the
truth. It is impossible to resist.
Asset: Verite is a viable alternative to a Bene Gesserit Truthsayer. This narcotic is also an effective interrogation tactic or
an intelligence-gathering tool for dosed unknowingly.
Keywords: Expensive, Ingestible, Narcotic
E spi o n a g e A ssets :

To communicate with each other in secret, the Bene Gesserit developed a system of raised or engraved dots that
can be left on almost any surface. Sisters can hide messages for each other in unexpected places that even skilled
spies won’t find. To read the intelligence left for her, a
Bene Gesserit Sister runs her fingertips along the dots.
As an Asset: Knowing how to read Bene Gesserit coded
dots gives an individual the ability to gather information
not meant for them. They can also leave messages for a
Bene Gesserit Sister... and possibly send a Sister on the
wrong path with deliberate misinformation.
Keywords: Bene Gesserit, Stealthy, Uncommon

While the specific technology varies by planet and subject,
distrans enable a user to implant information in an animal
and turn it into an unknown accomplice in conveying messages. The recipient of the animal retrieves the message
by using a code. The animal relays the message through
chirps, screeches, and other noises that approximate words.
Birds are frequently used as couriers, with bats being
the most sought after for their nocturnal abilities.

As an Asset: Minimic films are only one micron in diameter, making them easy to smuggle and hide. Encrypted
shigawire reels also act as ways to send messages.
Keywords: Common, Inexpensive, Physical Item

As an Asset: Distrans ensure private and secure
communication.

Illicit information comes in many forms in the Imperium.
Tiny minimic films made from shigawire, Bene Gesserit
coded dots, decoders, intercepted communications,
spy-eyes, spies, and traitors can all provide different
insights into the trundling gears of the Imperium. Ixian
dampers and cones of silence exist in the Imperium for
good reason. Trust no one.
As an Asset: Intelligence gathering goes both ways.
Those searching for secrets might be giving away valuable details themselves.

Knowledgeable in the rules, regulations, and permissible techniques from the Assassins’ Handbook, assassins are not rogue actors working outside the system
but rather a critical part of how the Imperium functions.
By adhering to the restrictions set out in the War of
Assassins under the Great Convention and Guild Peace,
assassins help to keep warfare between the Houses of
the Landsraad civil... or at least with minimal civilian
casualties. Assassins are clever, dangerous, and often
placed in positions of power within the Great Houses.
As an Asset: An assassin has certain skills and an understanding of how society works that not all are privy to.
They’re a good friend to have and a cruel foe to face.
With their contacts spread among the underbelly of the
Imperium as well as the highest ranks of nobility, they
often have intelligence others don’t.

The Harkonnens in particular are known for their success in wringing intelligence out of unwilling captives.
Torture, verite, and all manner of brutal methods are
common and accepted in the Imperium.

As an Asset: Interrogation is effective. Using it or resisting it will require mental, physical, and spiritual fortitude.
Keywords: Secret Information

Guild bribery, intentional deceit, financial dishonesty, and
geographical fraud all contribute to flawed or incomplete
maps of the various planets and systems within the Imperium. Accurate maps are helpful for survival and planning
but finding them is not always easy. Many Houses and communities have their reasons to hide this kind of information.
As an Asset: A reliable map can reveal a lot about a planet,
the people, and the local Houses... and what they’re hiding.
Resources, weapons, technology, warehouses, or sweeping
changes to a planet’s environment might all be things that
different factions want to keep to themselves.
Keywords: Secret information

House Vernius, House Harkonnen, and others all have large
organizations that they run. They provide technology, weapons, and other resources to the rest of the Imperium. Many
Houses also have shares in the Empire-wide economic
syndicate CHOAM, the Combine Honnete Ober Advancer
Mercantiles. As a result, many Houses, CHOAM itself, the
Bene Gesserit, and other factions throughout the Imperium
have embedded spies throughout these institutions.
As an Asset: Spies may know about, or know how to find,
secret schematics, exclusive technology, confidential formulas, and other valuable information. They may also have
access to sensitive details about their employers, giving
anyone who gets their hands on a spy the chance to turn
the tables on a rival.
Keywords: Elusive, Knowledgeable

targets to an almost undetectable degree. If a Face Dancer
has infiltrated an organization, they may be almost impossible to root out. This gives the Bene Tleilax incredible
power in the Imperium, despite the general disdain toward
them as a people.
As an Asset: Face Dancers can sneak into almost any location, organization, or government without notice. However,
they are programmed with loyalty to the Bene Tleilax, so
turning one against their masters or toward independence
is not a simple task. Their devotion to their Bene Tleilax
masters may become a liability in the field. A Face Dancer
may also come to believe that they are the person whose
life they assumed, if left in place for too long, and in some
cases can break free of their Tleilaxu masters.
Keywords: Elusive, Genetically Programmed, Indistinguishable

As an Asset: Mentats have incredible abilities that
allow them to evaluate situations while considering
vast amounts of data. They can often predict upcoming offensives and determine the best course of action
for their Houses. A Mentat Master of Assassins is a
dangerous and clever opponent.
Keywords: Human Computer, Intelligent, Tricky

The Landsraad represents all the Houses Major and
Minor in the Imperium but is only one of its ruling
bodies. With so many different parts to the Imperium
affecting wide-ranging policy, political spies are rampant. Many Houses try to infiltrate the Padishah Emperor’s own government. Others attempt to blackmail rival
or lesser Houses with the information they gather. For
a member of a House, it is difficult to determine who
to trust even within one’s own family.
As an Asset: A political spy can provide information on a
War of Assassins, blackmail material, or plans for Landsraad proposals. Catching a spy can result in new information about a known enemy or an unknown adversary.
Protecting one’s spies and defending against hostile spies
is a never-ending battle for the Houses of the Imperium.
Keywords: Elusive, Knowledgeable, Tricky

Favors are the kind of resource which the best agents of
a House utilize as often as they can, but they must be
used with care. Failing to maintain a cover or pushing a
selected asset too hard can lead to exposure and catastrophe. After all, if an asset feels themselves to have been
betrayed, their trust broken and their friendship (or more)
discarded, they are likely to seek vengeance. Intrigue and
political chicanery are always dangerous games, and while
favors can certainly be the most subtle of all approaches,
this must be balanced with their potential for disaster. It
requires perspicacity and nerve to achieve successfully.
But a favor owed by the right person to the right agent
can change the fate of a House, or Arrakis, forever…

Someone owes you. Whether it is cash, drugs, or whatever they have borrowed from you in some way. When
needed, you can call in that debt and force them to
provide you with something in return. You can do this
gradually, always insinuating that the loan you extended
to them is about to be withdrawn, or you can do it suddenly, demanding payment now! Of course, as necessary
as this might be, it tends to cost an agent their asset.
Once burned, or once the favor has been called in and
revealed to be a quid pro quo, the relationship between
the agent and their asset is usually done. Burned. In a few
cases, with the most subtle and most expert of agents—
those with Mentat training perhaps—it might be possible
to avoid such terminal consequences, but this is rare.
As an Asset: A sudden, vital resource can be elicited,
when needed. Funds, a safe-house, something. When
the situation is bleak and options are few, this can be a
life-saving option.
Keywords: Desperate, Frightened, Paranoid

As an Asset: A companion you’ve known for some time,
carefully compiling information on them and acting as
their friend. They can provide you with information, spy
on a target, or hide you when things become dangerous.
Keywords: Faithful, Reliable, Wily

Everything comes with a price. The universe depends on
trade. Everything depends on commerce. But for those
who are truly powerful, or those who understand how
true power works and where it lies, currency is worthless. Favors… now, favors have value. Favors are the
only currency, outside of spice, that holds its worth, that
isn’t susceptible to the fluctuations of market prices.
You provide these services to large organizations and in
return, you get to know where they send the resources
you offer. They know they can call on you when things
get tough. And you know you can call on them.
As an Asset: A large organization is in your pocket and,
within reason, you can gain as much of a different asset
as you require.
Keywords: Reliable, Valuable
I n tri g u e A ssets :

V a l ua bles
Intrigue often centers around wealth and access to
resources, and thus those things can be potent assets
during any sort of social conflict. Business contracts and
quantities of valuables are traded alongside information
and favors and can be used as leverage just as easily…
so long as you know what your opponent desires and
you can fill that demand.

A favor provided by an agent to someone, in the hope
they might become an asset, leaves no trace. An unexpected sum of money is suspicious. It draws attention to
itself, or it makes its owner act foolishly. A knife leaves
marks, or, worse, a dead body which must be hidden or
explained. These are clumsy methods. A true agent, an
agent worthy of the trust placed in them, does not leave
such obvious paths for a hunter to follow. Where is the
harm in a favor, however? It’s simply a friend trying to
help a friend, after all. A perfectly normal, natural thing
to want to do. Of course, gaining trust and building a
relationship is not easy. It involves work, carefully assessing the intended target and determining what it is that
they wish they could have, what it is that they need.

A step up from simply trading raw materials, access to the
land where these materials are produced can be traded if
the price is good enough, allowing whomever has access
to generate as much of that raw material as they want… so
long as they’re willing to do the work. This can be something of a double-edged sword—everyone wants spice,
but few are willing to face the dangers and difficulties of
harvesting and refining it—but it can serve as part of a
lucrative deal and create great opportunities for influence.
As an Asset: Leasing land rights to another can be
lucrative, and place another party in a position where
they’re more open to other deals because they cannot
afford to turn you down… but there’s risk, because
you’re giving up some of your capacity to produce those
same materials to another.

Your House manufactures something valuable, or you’ve
managed to obtain some valuable goods which someone
is likely to need. This might be technology or crafted items,
such as shields, weapons, or vehicles, or it might be a
refined substance ready for use, such as the various useful
forms and substances that spice can be transformed into.
As an Asset: The ability to manufacture goods can
expose you to the influence of whomever provides the
raw materials, but finished goods are highly valuable
cargo and access to them can open doors that might
otherwise remain closed.
Keywords: Manufactured, Trade Goods (plus other keywords according to the goods, such as Scarce or Abundant)

anyone skilled in business will be looking for a better deal.
As an Asset: Trading raw materials is an easy way to get
embroiled in an intrigue, and the ability to produce and distribute resources can be a powerful way to gain influence.
Keywords: Raw Materials, Trade Goods (plus other
keywords according to the type of material, such as
Scarce or Abundant)

A one-off sale of goods is one thing, but a long-term
contract can be a powerful tool in the halls where politics
and trade align. A contract to produce goods for another
faction can forge a lasting relationship with that faction
and help turn their wealth to your advantage. In turn,
contracting another faction to supply something to you
can ensure you never lack for the resources you need.
Either way, there’s a lasting connection between both parties, which can allow for greater influence at a later date.
As an Asset: It’s difficult to take hostile action against
someone who supplies goods to you, or who you
supply; these kinds of entanglements help preserve a
semblance of peace in the Imperium, tying the interests
of competing Houses together. A cunning player of this
grand game can use that to their advantage.
Keywords: Long-term, Production, Trade (plus other keywords according to of goods, such as Scarce or Abundant)

While not necessarily on the scale of trade contracts and
land rights, individual valuable items can be potent assets
in trade and intrigue. Items of artistic merit, unique creations of historical or religious value, and similar precious
objects are highly sought-after, and their ownership often
changes during times of political strife and turmoil, frequently serving as leverage for those possessed of great
power, great ambition, and expensive tastes.
As an Asset: Valuable items are often relatively easy
to move and trade, as they are frequently small and
lightweight compared to their value. This makes them
an excellent way of moving value from place to place
discretely, which in turn makes them a useful tool during
trade and negotiations.
Keywords: Fragile, Portable, Precious
I n tri g u e A ssets :

B l a c k m a il
It is a truism amongst agents that the louder a person
denounces something, the more they secretly crave it—the
clever blackmailer notices these tendencies, these not-sohidden tells, and seeks to exploit them, laying temptation
in the path of their intended victim, or offering the possibility of access to such forbidden fruits. Often this takes time;
the agent has to gradually insinuate themselves, shrugging
off the initial angry denials of interest or threats. But little
by little, the resistance is overcome, and the desire wins
out. And then, when the bait has been taken, the agent’s
trap is sprung. Demanding money in exchange for keeping
harmful secrets, blackmail is a messy business and there
are Houses within the Landsraad who pride themselves as
being above such underhanded methods of attaining leverage. But for those agents and Houses unconcerned by
the underhandedness of such techniques, there is much to
be gained. There is little more powerful than the threat of
exposure hanging over the head of an asset. Of course, as
with any intrigue asset, time must be expended to select
the most appropriate form of blackmail record—to find
the thing that is sufficient to ensure obeisance, as well as
guaranteeing silence after the asset has fulfilled their function. Anything that cannot command both obedience and
silence exposes not only the victim, but the agent as well.

For those prepared to truly commit their resources to
such a thing, blackmail can go far. The kidnap of a loved
one, a family member, or a close friend—and the threat
of harm being committed against them—can be enough
to break even the most devoted of servants to a House.
Some Mentats even hypothesize that such an extreme
approach might be sufficient to shatter the Imperial
conditioning. Of course, no one has ever had chance to
test such an outlandish theory, but it nevertheless persists. While shame, ridicule, exile, or death are powerful

motivators—of the kind that threaten those subject to
exposure from more traditional modes of blackmail—
the ongoing torture of a loved one might be sufficient
to make a person do anything to achieve its cessation.
Only the mind of a particularly twisted variety of Mentat
is even capable of conjecturing such things, but nevertheless, such creatures do exist.
As an Asset: Kidnapped, imprisoned, and fearful, a hostage is an extremely potent form of leverage, but also
carries commensurately high risks. Keeping the hostage
well can be difficult, and preventing them from escaping
can also require resources.
Keywords: Frightened, Trapped, Valuable

It is human nature to want things. It is human nature to
want things that one isn’t allowed to have. Drugs, flesh,
money… whatever the laws of the Landsraad forbid,
or the rules of a House prohibit, human nature desires
more. And when have laws and other such trivialities
ever prevented people from doing precisely what they
wish? After all, there are always those willing to give into
forbidden desires and those prepared to profit from it.
Not simply through fulfilling the desire and taking payment, of course. Many are prepared to do just that, but
some special individuals are prepared to go a little further… ‘accidentally‘ recording such illicit activities in one
form or another, before filing it away, ready and waiting
for the moment when it becomes useful.
As an Asset: Recordings, visual or audible, of an asset’s
illegal (or at least extremely embarrassing) practices.
Can be related to drugs, sex, or other activities an
agent’s target wants to remain hidden.
Keywords: Damaging, Embarrassing

Politics requires its players to wear different masks at
different times, depending on the circumstances they
find themselves in. A staunch ally of the Atreides today
may become the bosom companion of the Harkonnens
tomorrow. It’s the way of things and entirely accepted,
so long as no one can ever prove those previous allegiances. As long as no one has, say, a record of payments made to an assassin to kill a Harkonnen aide. Or
the footage of an asset stealing from the Atreides spice
supply. Of course, getting hold of such proofs can be
difficult, but worth it. Most definitely worth it.
As an Asset: Proof of a target’s various machinations
against a current employer; extracted from the personal
files of the target, these are powerful inducements to
ensure a target’s continued good behavior.
Keywords: Damaging, Illicit, Subtle

You need things, naturally. Some of those things are easy
to obtain, purchasable in any bazaar, any market, any
shop. Other things require sourcing more carefully. That’s
what black market contacts are for. Anything you need,
they can usually find. Yes, they charge a lot, but you get
what you pay for. And you might end up looking for some
very obscure and illegal stuff. So, you’re going to need
someone trustworthy, or at least, trustworthy enough.
As an Asset: Someone with one foot in the mercantile
world and the other in the underworld. They can get
you what you need when you need it. No questions
asked, so long as the money is right.
Keywords: Experienced, Resourceful, Well-known

Sex is always a powerful lure, and a courtesan of any
gender is a useful contact. People are rarely as guarded
when undressed, and a skilled courtesan can learn
much, both from conversation and from a quick study of
what a person keeps in their pockets—and what company they keep. The courtesan is an ally and a contact
of the highest usefulness, provided you can find one
prepared to offer such information. The risk of being
caught, and the punishment involved for a courtesan
selling information, is much higher than that for any
other role. The rewards must therefore be much greater.
As an Asset: A trained courtesan with access to the
bedchambers of the wealthy and influential, capable of
discovering a great deal if handled carefully.
Keywords: Attractive, Cunning, Resourceful

of worlds. A few of these agents retire, some are driven
out, and some escape. Some even survive outside of their
House. But some never entirely escape the life, and remain
at its periphery, calling upon their old training and network
of contacts to remain viable and to turn their former experience into profit.
Ex-agents inevitably know other former or even active
agents, and can call on them now and then, for advice,
for direction, for the kind of favors old agents understand better than anyone else. However, due to the
nature of the game, these are not the most trustworthy
people, and should be utilized with caution.
As an Asset: This is a former agent encountered and
trusted in in the past, able to be called on for a safe place
to hide or tips on the moves being made by opponents.
Keywords: Experienced, Intelligent, Wily
I n tri g u e A ssets :

Gaining access to the court of the Padishah Emperor can be
difficult, even for experienced and well-connected agents.
Finding someone who understands the right hand signals,
the right gestures to gain admittance to this sanctum, to
that library, is a vital step for anyone hoping to situate themselves at the ultimate nexus of power. It is not simply about
admission, either. Without the right guide to the myriad factions and shifting allegiances of the Imperial court, even the
most sagacious agent can become entirely lost. Newcomers to court with the connections to make their way swiftly
up the ranks are ideal targets for agents trying to infiltrate
the court—potentially powerful, but inexperienced enough
to be taken in by a quick enough tongue.
As an Asset: Recently arrived at the Emperor’s court,
this scion of a House or otherwise well-connected
youngster wants to rise quickly in the eyes of the court.
Keywords: Ambitious, Eager, Pushy

Those fortunate few who have gained the Emperor’s favor
are always on the lookout for novelty, for something to
amuse or surprise the Padishah Emperor, and for someone
who might one day be a useful scapegoat. There is little
loyalty in the Imperial court; the Padishah Emperor’s whims
are far too changeable for that and, as a result, friendships
and allegiances tend to be brief, though plentiful. An enemy
in the morning might be a bosom companion by the evening and an attempted assassin by the time the sun has set.
The Emperor’s favorites rarely last long and use any means
necessary to retain their position. This can be used by the
cunning to their advantage, but it can also spell disaster…
As an Asset: Having risen high in the Emperor’s esteem,
this asset can get you in places and give you information
few others can. But this comes with risks; they might be
imprisoned or executed for displeasing the Emperor without warning, drawing you into the purge.
Keywords: Cunning, Paranoid, Ruthless

Any House, by its nature, has a wide variety of associated
and loyal personnel who serve the House’s members and
its best interests. The nature, quality, and responsibilities of
these individuals varies dramatically, but all are extensions
of the House itself, and as such are considered as assets.
As an Asset: Chapter 3: Creating Your House covers the
creation of a House and establishes guidelines for creating
retainer assets, before and during play.
Keywords: Familiar, Loyal

inhabiting a shell of a former estate—hollowed out by the
necessity of selling possessions to survive—or subsisting
entirely on a wave of debt incurred to maintain the illusion
of prosperity. At the end of the day when the accounting is
complete, however, the House, and particularly its head, is
in debt.
As an Asset: Indebted landowners are potentially the most
extreme of courtier assets, as they may range from fiercely
loyal and hoping to better their status within the House
ruling over them, to embittered has-beens who blame
those above them for their sorry state, and can be utilized
against the House by its enemies.
Keywords: Fallen, Indebted, Loyal or Disloyal (pick one)

A politician is an essential guide to precisely who is in
favor, who is about to be in favor and who is about to
experience a precipitous fall. Such information is utterly
invaluable, enabling agents to plot strategies to ingratiate
themselves with one faction at the expense of another. It is
in the back-and-forth of courtier politics that the grand fiefs
are handed out to those the Emperor wishes to reward
(or to punish), and only those politicians intimately tied to
the moods of the court, and to the rise and fall of individuals in the Emperor’s favor, can predict certain upcoming
changes. When Count Fenring was sent to Arrakis to
inspect the Harkonnen operation, the move was common
knowledge amongst the various politicians at court long
before it began to filter through to the Landsraad.
As an Asset: A long-serving member of the court, having
seen it all and survived various coup attempts, this asset
knows everything and everyone, and is wily enough to
avoid the worst of the fallout.
Keywords: Cunning, Intelligent, Wily

G a mem a steri n g
There is in all things a pattern that is part of our universe. It has symmetry, elegance,
and grace—those qualities you find always in that which the true artist captures. You can
find it in the turning of the seasons, in the way sand trails along a ridge, in the branch
clusters of the creosote bush or the pattern of its leaves. We try to copy these patterns
in our lives and our society, seeking the rhythms, the dances, the forms that comfort.
Yet, it is possible to see peril in the finding of ultimate perfection. It is clear that the ultimate pattern contains its own fixity. In such perfection, all things move toward death.
—from The Collected Sayings of Muad'Dib, by Princess Irulan

T h e G a mem a ster ’ s
J o b is t o . . .
The gamemaster is the tour guide, the glue that binds
the characters together, and the motivation that gets
players to make interesting decisions. It’s not an easy
job, but it is a fun one! In the end, the goal is to have a
fun time and have great experiences with your players.

As the gamemaster, you are the primary storyteller,
and your players are your creative collaborators. You
are shepherding your players through a harsh, exciting
world and a thrilling story that is very possibly of your
own creation. Your players may make decisions that
might take you all in unexpected directions. Together,
you’re creating a unique experience, a story in the Dune
universe that belongs only to you and your players, no
one else. You are all a team.

…CREATE AND MANAGE THE CAMPAIGN.
You can choose to use a pre-made campaign or create
one from scratch. Your campaign might take only a
single session or turn into a multi-year epic. The nonplayer characters, the risks and rewards for the player
characters, and the pacing of your campaign are all up
to you. You can find tips and tricks for adventures and
the size and length of campaigns in the Creating an
Adventure section on p.221 and the Short Games and
Long-term Campaigns section on p.219.

NOT EVERYONE IS THE KWISATZ HADERACH...
But a player might want to experience what it’s like to
be the Chosen One every now and then. It’s nice to
make players feel extra special on occasion. Remember,
they’re on your storytelling team, not your nemeses.

Some players are great at describing how their character’s sharp tongue got the social edge at that banquet
by convincing that courtier to admit to cheating water
sellers out of profits. Encourage that!
However, some players haven’t honed that skill or aren’t
comfortable thinking up explanations in the heat of the
moment. And that’s fine. If they rolled well and don’t want
to expand upon it, you can just explain that their character
got the upper hand, leaving the poor courtier to pick up
the pieces of their now-tattered reputation. Maybe the
player will be more confidenadding narration next time.

Just as Chapter 6: Conflict breaks down conflict scope
into smaller phases, a gamemaster can better manage
a game by defining its setting scope. By establishing
the boundaries of the story, you establish expectations
for your players. A story set in the city of Arrakeen is
different than one that travels between planets in the
Imperium. For clarity, you can break scope down into
three spheres: local, world, and galaxy.

Set within a single environment such as a sietch, spaceship, or city, local games have limited scope, but are
great for short sessions and new groups of players.
Local games can introduce new material while creating conflicts that feel vital and personal. Every player
character and non-player character is an essential piece
of a larger puzzle with the capacity to affect everyone
else involved.
Heists, murder mysteries, origin stories, small-scale
political intrigues, and turf wars can serve as the nugget
of your local game idea. Games with local scope can
answer establishing questions for your players in a more
interactive way than just telling them what is going on
in the world. What if players learned about the governing authority via a heist or political intrigue? Would an
origin story set on a frigate help acclimate your players
to the tone of Dune? Or could a courier plot, forcing the
characters to deliver a highly prized artifact, teach your
players about the culture of a city?

A world game has multiple locations in a single planet.
And with a few exceptions, Dune is a world story with most
of it taking place on Arrakis. The characters in the book
explore distinct environments from the streets of Arrakeen
to the caverns of Sietch Tabr. Getting from locale to locale
requires flying an ornithopter or riding a sandworm. Each
area has its own authority, such as a Fremen naib or a governor. Whereas a local game may have been bound by the
limits of a single environment, the world game expands
the scope of the story to include these settings.
War stories, diplomatic missions, action-adventure plots,
and expeditions are a few types of games suited to the
world setting. Conflicts featured in world games tend
to involve larger groups of people like cultures at odds
with each other, divided by ethnic or political ideologies,
locked in a state of civil unrest. The challenges player
characters face often change the fate of an entire society.
The key to a world game is creating opportunities for
players to go globetrotting.

A galaxy game spans the Known Universe and brings
with it a sense of expanse and wonder. Galaxy games
shine when paired with lengthy campaigns chronicling
the lives of the player characters. That said, galaxy games
can also work in shorter stories when time is of the
essence: A controversial noble must reach a summit on a
specific day, or Houses across the galaxy race against one
another to obtain a priceless artifact.
Quests, pursuit and rescue plots, galaxy-spanning space
operas, large-scale political intrigues, and galactic war
stories can send player characters to the ends of the
Known Universe and back again. You can make use of
the Spacing Guild, traveling from planet to planet on
Heighliners to explore established worlds, or even create
your own. In galaxy games, character objectives can alter
the course of history.
Galaxy games should feel epic.

scene takes place inside the brig and allows the player
characters an opportunity to get to know each other.
The second scene is their escape. The story ends with
them safely reaching a neutral port.

for the Major Houses to discuss a major shortfall
in CHOAM profits. The first session focuses on the
summit, revealing potential suspects for financial theft.
The second session leads them to the suspects’ home
worlds to gather evidence. And the third session has
them confront those responsible.

rival nobles overthrow the baroness of a Major
House. Each game session focuses on hunting down
and dealing with a member of the conspiracy. Each
member resides in a separate location, complete with
its own troubles and complications.

The most basic story hook has a goal for the players,
indicates some of the risks, and hints at a reward. A
story hook also often includes a non-player character
with a little background, what that character wants
to achieve, and how the player characters can get
involved.
Here’s a story hook that could turn into a bigger campaign:
One of the Houses Minor is accusing Pinta, a waterseller in Arrakeen, of peddling poisoned water.
She insists that she’s innocent. The House Minor
is willing to pay for evidence (real or fabricated) of
her crimes. Pinta fears retaliation from the House
Minor and doesn’t have much to her name, but,
for anyone who helps her prove that the poisoned
water wasn’t hers, she is willing to part with a map
that’s said to lead to an ancient treasure hidden in
the sands.
This story hook provides two sides and the rewards that
each side is offering. The players could help Pinta or they
could go for the big payday and help the House Minor.

GET ORGANIZED.
Take notes. Get a feel for the non-player characters.
Bookmark the different confrontations and items you
think you might need to reference quickly. Feel free to
create your own maps or reference materials for your
players to keep on hand, too. As you become more
experienced and get to know your particular player
group’s play style, you’ll get a better feel for what you
might want to provide them.

@ Who are they?
@ What are they after?
@ When do they plan on making their move?
@ Where is it?
@ Why do they want whatever it is?
@ How do they go about getting what they want?

Check out Creating Non-player Characters on p.263
for more hints and tips for making well-rounded villains
that make great antagonists for your players to face.
You have a story hook and the villain’s motivations. Now what?
Now, you have to figure out the how. If you know how
things are happening, then that gives you flexibility because
the players can find the ‘how’ several different ways.
In the above example with Pinta the water-seller, it
helps to know how her water was poisoned. Perhaps,
it was poisoned in the merchant’s warehouse before
it ever even got to her. How can the players figure
that out? They can inspect the warehouse and find
evidence of poison. They can interrogate other watersellers, and perhaps one admits to seeing someone
sneaking out the warehouse late at night.
Another couple of useful questions to ask are “Why are
they doing this now?” and “What happens if they succeed?” The answers to these two questions can provide
the urgency and stakes for the adventure.
By knowing the how of the scheme, you can figure out
how to react to your players’ actions. Determining how
you want to guide the players doesn’t have to happen
right away. If you need some time to come up with
something, postponing until the next session works, too.

Non-player characters are lots of fun. To be prepared,
have a whole bunch of random, quick minor nonplayer characters ready, so you can pull one out if your
players do something unexpected.
You can always turn a Minor non-player character into
a notable or even a major one at a later point in time
if the players end up interacting with them a lot. It
also helps to give your non-player characters strong
motivations, so you understand where they’re coming
from as you play them. Check out Creating Nonplayer Characters on p.263 for more.

What? She wants to secure a CHOAM directorship
for her House.
When? She has been patient for many years and is
making her big move now.
Where? She lives and works on Arrakis but hopes
to receive a siridar fief from the Emperor along
with her CHOAM directorship.
Why? Her family has never had much influence due
to their status as a powerless House Minor on Arrakis. They were always expected to support whoever
had the planetary governorship. And Malthace has
seen how every duke and baron who ran the siridar
fiefdom has botched their command. She knows
that she and her family could do a much better job.
How? Malthace believes she’s made a deal with a
CHOAM representative. The massive mercantile
organization is unhappy with the shares of melange they’re receiving from the current planetary
governor. If Malthace can find a way to ruin the
reputation of the Great House currently running
Arrakis, her CHOAM contact believes that they can
have the House exiled and transfer their directorship to Malthace’s House.

From social media to digital tools that allow you to play
roleplaying games online, there are many resources to
help you find or start a new game.
To start your recruitment drive, hunt for the ‘Looking for
Group’ (LFG) sections of your favorite tabletop websites
and online tools. Gamemasters are always in demand.

Tucked all around the world are wonderful stores that
cater to the tabletop game crowd. Game stores often
have tables for playing games. Sometimes, they even
offer in-person pickup games, one-off adventures, or
even specific days where a particular game is the focus.
You’re likely to find fellow storytellers in places like
these. And they might even let you put up a bulletin
or recruit for a player group at the store. These little
gems are amazing resources, and they’re just a web
search away.

When playing with a new group, it helps to start with a
one-off adventure or a short campaign no more than a few
sessions long (see Short Games and Long-term Campaigns on p.219). Starting small like this helps to make sure
the group is compatible and gives everyone a chance to get
comfortable with each other without a huge commitment.
If you do decide to go with a shorter adventure or campaign to begin with, communicate this to help manage
your players' expectations. You may want to create new
characters or continue with the ones you have. You may
also find that players want to change their characters,
based on their experience with the rules and the setting.
While this is generally discouraged during a long-term
campaign, this is the perfect time to do so, when things
are just getting started. Just like the characters in a television series can change slightly between the pilot episode
and those later in the season, so too can player characters.
Players should not be forced to suffer the consequences
of uninformed decisions during character creation that will
linger throughout the rest of the campaign.

As a gamemaster, you should lean into and
reward quirks and flaws in the player characters.
It fleshes them out and makes the sessions more
fun and interesting. Take note especially of their
weaknesses, as these are wonderful levels by
which you can apply drama and conflict in the
game, elements that feel personal to the player
character.

The characters your players create can provide a
wealth of information. No background, however
small, cannot offer a few plot hooks and story
seeds of its own. What made them pledge their
loyalty to the House? Who trained them and why?
Where did they meet their contacts and how much
can they trust them? How did they come by their
assets, and did acquiring them pay a debt or incur
one? A short discussion about background with
the player group can often write whole adventures
for you.

Finally, remember that the characters the players create tell you the sort of game they want to
play. This is the easiest and most obvious form of
player investment. A player who creates a socialite most likely wants a game featuring intrigue,
one who creates a fighter wants action and
combat. It is vital the gamemaster pays attention
to this so they can make sure their adventures not
only engage the players but give each character
the chance to shine.

After your players have character sheets, and you
have tailored your story to their interests, it’s time to
run a game. Keep in mind, Dune: Adventures in the
Imperium is a heavily narrative system. You should
view the rules included in this book as tools to use at
your discretion. Whether your players enjoy numbercrunching and rolling dice, or defining success or
failure with a simple Difficulty test, you can modify and
interpret the system to best serve your story and your
players’ preferred play styles.

T h e F irst S ce n e
Do the players characters know each other? If not, the first
scene should introduce them to each other in some interesting way. For example, an immediate problem they must
solve as a team is one way, while using a notable non-player
character to bring them together for a task is another.
Consider using a unifying objective for the player
characters like fame, duty, or shared survival. Then,
think about what sort of initial setting would best
highlight the tone of the game. A story that starts in a
bar suggests a casual, adventurous atmosphere. A story
beginning with the baron giving a powerful monologue
may encourage players to lean into the drama. A first
scene with said baron dead on the floor evokes mystery
and indicates player characters should gather clues and
search for evidence.
Introductory scenes set expectations for your players.
For example:

@ The player characters attend the wedding reception
of two young nobles from rival houses joined in
matrimony. The player characters have a chance to
mingle and converse with each other while you set
the tone for family drama and high political intrigue.

@ The story opens with a chase scene. A trio of ornithopters pursue the player characters’ carryall. This scenario
drops them into the middle of an action adventure.
Later scenes can explain how they reached this point,
either through narration or even roleplaying them out.

U si n g D ri v es
Drives can be one of the more challenging aspects of
the system to use. While they offer an array of narrative
and motivational options, and facilitate architect play,
their very flexibility can prove confusing. However, you
can use drives in several different ways to fine-tune the
style of game to what suits your group.

Which drive should be used for a test is usually defined
by the drive statements. The statements are designed
to offer a quick narrative description of what a drive
means to that character. This allows the player to
define their own interpretation of the drive and forgo
the need to check the definition of the drive in question before deciding.
However, some players find it more intuitive to start with
the drive and see if the statement suits it, and that’s fine. If
the statements are less clear for your group, try asking them
to look at which drive is appropriate instead of looking at
the statements. Then, having chosen the correct drive they
can see if their statement applies to the situation to allow
the use of determination. You should use whichever way
round your group finds intuitive, and each player can use a
different style if everyone knows who is doing what.
When picking a drive, it is important to remember that
they define the character’s motivation and therefore the
way they are being played. As such, the player should be
allowed to have the final say on what suits their character.
Having said that, the gamemaster can rule they have not
justified the use of a particular drive enough and should
either pick another or offer a better explanation. Picking a
drive shouldn’t turn into a long argument or be taken into
too much depth. The gamemaster should simply ask the
player why they are doing the action and see what they
say and how that relates to drives and statements.
This can lead to players using the same drive, their best
one, all the time. To a degree, this is fine. Characters can
play to their strengths and their highest drive is the way
they tend to meet most challenges. As elite agents of
their House they are often working with a good chance of
success. However, the gamemaster can insist a player consider other options. If they don’t, the character’s methods
become predictable to their enemies and may offer an
opportunity for the gamemaster to apply Threat. As a rule
of thumb, a gamemaster might gain Threat each time a
character uses a particular drive, if it is halfway through the
session and they have used no other drives.
While it can seem cumbersome, it is worth taking the
time to properly define a character’s drive when making
a test. It is easy to be overeager to grab the dice and
get rolling. But in Dune a test can often become a game
of cat-and-mouse as each side manages Threat and
Momentum spends and applies traits and assets.
“The slow blade penetrates the shield”, so take time to
figure out the nature of each situation. A short discussion
can offer new ideas for traits, Momentum spends, and narration for the scene, all of which offer greater roleplaying
opportunities for the group. Knowing why they are doing
something can offer the player characters much more
agency and help craft their characters. Don’t be too quick

to waste the opportunity, but at the same time be aware
when the game is losing pace and getting bogged down.
When an action is important, motivation becomes
easier. When breaking into a facility, it might be on
behalf of the House (Duty) to save a friend (Faith) or
right a wrong (Justice) to uncover a plot (Truth) or to
prove the strength of your army (Power), etc. But when
you are just picking a lock or trying to escape a downed
ornithopter, your motivation doesn’t seem very clear.
You just need to get the job done or follow your orders.
There are two options in this situation. The first is for the
gamemaster to ask the players what their character’s reasons are for doing the mission at all, before they set out.
They then all pick a drive that suits that motivation. For any
minor tests involving the mission, this is the drive they use,
representing their overall incentive. They can use other
drives and statements as often as they wish. But if they are
ever unsure what applies, they now have a default to use.
The second option is to forego minor tests completely.
Dice rolls aren’t designed to be as common in Dune
as in many other games. So instead of making a test to
pick each lock, make a single test to ‘enter the facility’.
The more wide-ranging the action, the more important
the test and the easier to determine motivation and
drive. This method also makes more sense to take time
on each roll, as it defines so much.

The Dune: Adventures in the Imperium rules are
designed to offer a toolbox of flexible options you
can apply to match the style of your group. Some
people prefer fast-and-loose gameplay, others like
a complex and more simulationist approach. Others
still prefer for roleplaying and narrative to take precedence over the rules.
The 2d20 rules system offers essentially four ways to
resolve any action:

@ Simple Test: For when you only need to know if
something passed or failed.

@ Contested Test: When the action is opposed by
someone or something.

@ Extended Test: When completing the action takes
time, and time is a factor.

@ Conflict: When the contest is especially complicated
involving multiple characters, a complex situation, or
simply deserves more detail.

While some of these forms of test are better suited to
different situations, they can apply to any action if the
group prefers. Which you pick defines the options for

the narrative, the focus on the action, and how complicated the test is.
Imagine the player characters must interrogate a group
of servants to find an assassin. There are already many
ways they can go about this, from sitting each of them
in a room to following them to see who they talk to or
even searching their rooms for clues. They might even
try all of them. Let’s say this group elects to try and talk
casually to each of them and see what they discover.
The gamemaster can use any of the systems described
above, to the following outcomes:

@ Simple Test: The gamemaster tells the players it will

take all day to chat to the servants. Each character
makes a simple test against a Difficulty based on how
clever or well-hidden the assassin is. If any of them
succeed, they have found a suspect. This method is
simple and quick, but perhaps a little too simple and
quick for such an endeavor.

@ Contested Test: As above, the gamemaster tells the

players this will take all day for all of them to talk to
everyone. But they might instead get each player
to pick which servants their character is talking to.
Each player makes a contested test (either for all the
servants together or each one they interview). As this
is contested, the gamemaster needs to give each
servant (or the servants as a group) a basic drive/
skill level for their rolls. Players and the gamemaster
spend Threat and Momentum and play out a catand-mouse interrogation, where winning reveals if
the servant can be trusted (or if there is an assassin
in the group). Depending on the number of servants
this might be a more satisfying option, but only
if finding the assassin is an important part of the
adventure.

@ Extended Test: This is best for a time limit, such

as if the player characters needing to root out the
assassin before the ruler of their House arrives.
The gamemaster sets a requirement and each roll
the player characters make represents a day of
questioning. During each roll, the gamemaster
and players can describe what actions they might
be taking as they follow clues to uncover the
assassin. When they run out of time they have
either made the requirement and found the villain,
or have run out of time and must figure out how
to keep their ruler safe while an assassin is on the
premises. This option works best if there is a time
constraint. Otherwise, the player characters can
just keep going until they find what they are after,
with few consequences.

@ Conflict: For this option the gamemaster needs

more statistics for the various non-player characters,
although again, it depends which conflict system
they use. Intrigue is probably best, with each servant
being a zone and the player characters moving

assets to defeat them in a challenge. Each defeated
servant reveals whether they can be trusted or not.
But the assassin can also move assets to attack the
player characters. The player characters won’t know
who is moving the assets against them, but might be
able use the movement of assets as a clue to target
their own investigation. This system allows for a lot of
complex maneuvering and plotting that may take the
whole game session, or possibly longer.
So, as you can see, each type of roll has its own
strengths and weaknesses. But these are defined not by
the rules but by what works for your group. You need
not (and should not) stick to only one form of test, as
different situations will often require different levels
of complexity to offer the players agency and reach a
satisfying outcome. But you can tend towards simple
or complex depending on the need and desires of
your group. This is especially the case if not everyone
prefers the same thing. Some players hate rolling dice
and using rules, others can’t get enough of it. So, make
sure everyone gets catered for at some point, especially
when it is their character in the spotlight leading the
action.

A ddi n g N a rr ati v e
The rules system just provides a way to determine an
outcome, so it needs a little help from everyone to add
an exciting narrative dynamic. Doing so also makes
longer and more complex tests a lot more interesting
and involving. Essentially, adding narrative just means
explaining what a character is actually doing when a
player rolls the dice. Just saying you move an asset isn’t
very exciting, but saying you are flying your ornithopter
low over the desert to avoid the spotter drones is much
more interesting.
Adding narrative isn’t just for the broad strokes either.
When a player spends Momentum or gives the gamemaster Threat, they should say what that represents.
“I’m spending a Momentum point as I catch the eye of
the noble across the room and realize he’s going to back
me up as I make my play” or “I’m going to add a point
of Threat to the gamemaster’s pool as my character isn’t
taking much care to look around as they launch themselves into the attack”.
These narrative flourishes improve the game dramatically
and generate more detail about the situation that helps
develop the story. However, it is important to remember
that not everyone is either good or confident at this sort
of improvisation. So, while it is great to have more detail,
just a simple description is perfectly fine, and it’s all right
for other players to make suggestions for a scene to help
each other out. If someone has trouble adding narration,
let them roll the dice and move on. Hopefully, in time
they gradually gain more confidence or have some ideas
when they see how everyone else is doing it.

M a n a g i n g S o ci a l
C o n f lict & I n tri g u e
Social interaction is one of the most complicated parts
of a roleplaying game. As the name implies, roleplaying
should encourage playing a role, and that means social
interaction should have little or no dice rolling. Leave
everything to the player’s natural ability to deceive,
persuade, and convince, and leave it at that. However,
not everyone has the same social skills, and this penalizes those who are quiet and shy or just not natural
talkers. They may also want to play a charming socialite
character and if everything is roleplay-based, they are at
a significant disadvantage.
So, Dune’s intrigue and social interaction systems level
the playing field. They allow the success of a character
to be determined by their character’s abilities, not the
player’s. But by adding narrative, you can still let the
scene be guided by the roleplaying. Let the players talk
and interact with non-player characters between dice
tests, but call for a roll to discover what the result of the
conversation or plot was.
If you have a group where everyone is an actor, then you
can throw away more of the system and focus on the
roleplaying aspects. However, it is rare to find a group
where that is the case for everyone, so pay attention to
timid players and allow the system to help them get the
results their character deserves.

M a n a g i n g C o n f lict ,
D u els a n d W a rs
Conflicts are an inevitable result of House machinations. In some cases, these manifest as personal duels,
at other times they escalate into assassination, and
sometimes into all-out war. Combat can be exciting and
dynamic, but it can also be rules-heavy, and therefore
slow. As gamemaster, you should consider what the
group prefers when introducing and managing any form
of conflict.
Duels are quite common in the Imperium, so the personal combat system allows you to focus on a single
fight, such as Paul’s duel with Jamis, or later with Feyd
in the novel Dune. Skirmishes often come about when
minor characters try to challenge or oppose the player
characters, or as part of an espionage operation, especially when it goes wrong. These sorts of fights are probably the most common form of conflict. Outright war is
rare, as it usually requires the Spacing Guild’s assistance
to move battlefield weapons from planet to planet to
reach their objective.
As with any rules system, it is important to apply
the correct one, and remember who is involved. A
duel only involves two people. So, unless it is hugely
important, or the rest of the group are invested in it

to some degree, it’s advisable to keep it short. The
same goes for skirmish and warfare if not everyone
has a stake in the fight. Having said that, any character can become more involved in any conflict without
picking up a weapon. They can distract opponents,
offer support, or even make bets on who the victor
will be! So, the gamemaster should still ask what even
less involved characters might like to do when a fight
breaks out.
The key thing to remember with any fight is context. A
fight on any level should mean something. When Paul
fights Jamis, it is a struggle to prove himself to the
Fremen. How Paul behaved in the fight and the aftereffects on his character and relationship with Stilgar’s
tribe reverberate throughout the rest of the novel. The
skirmishes led by Muad’Dib on spice production cause
the Emperor to travel to Arrakis, and the great battle
at the end of the novel decides the fate of the universe. So, while combat can be fun an exciting, make
sure there is something important at stake, even if it is
just the lives of the player characters.

Finding the right balance between a game that is both
fun and challenging is, in and of itself, a challenge. A
game too difficult for the players may frustrate them,
while too easy a game will undoubtedly bore them.
You can adjust difficulty using Momentum and Threat.
If the players are chewing their way through Sardaukar
with ease, you can use more dice from the Threat pool
to make your antagonists tougher. On the other hand,
if your players are having difficulty dealing with some
low-grade spice smugglers, you can give them a chance
to gain Momentum.
Another idea is to have several non-player character
sheets on hand, built at various power levels. If player
characters enter combat against a Harkonnen platoon,
but you’re unsure how they’ll fare, you can bring two
sets of antagonists to the table. Build the first platoon
with beginner-level skills, a single talent, and a single
asset. Build the second platoon with a few additional
skills, multiple talents, and multiple assets. A selection
of beginner-level archetypes can be found in Chapter 9:
Allies and Adversaries.
A third possibility is to introduce a non-player character who can directly assist the players. Perhaps a Ginaz
Swordmaster protects them for a short time, or maybe a

Fremen warrior chooses to guide them out of the deep
desert. Serving as a set of training wheels, this nonplayer character can keep the group alive long enough
for them to figure out how to use their skills. After
serving their purpose, you can sacrifice the non-player
character for the good of the story, or take them off the
board to be reintroduced later.

Sometimes players, through no fault of their own, fixate
on the wrong thing. You may describe a scene, adding
some detail players misinterpret as being vital to the
story. Before you know it, they’ve spent an hour tracking
down the provenance of an Albe oil painting which only
you know is insignificant. Another twist happens when
you present a challenge, and instead of attacking the
problem as you imagined, players head in an entirely
new (and unprepared for) direction.
One way to mitigate this is to explain, at the start of the
story, where the boundaries lie. If the game only takes
place on Arrakis, you should feel free to say so. If the
players pursue a false lead that would take them offworld, you can remind them of the boundaries established at the start.
Another trick to keep the game on pace is to use a
timer, allocating no more than an hour per scene or
some equivalent thereof. Basic or unnecessary scenes
can be handwaved. And you shouldn’t abuse this tactic
too much as players like to feel free to make their own
decisions. Regardless of how long the scene takes,
before you move on to the next, you should make a
habit of offering one last request for actions. “Is there
anything else you would like to do before we proceed?”
is generally a good question to ask.
If you have a non-player character assisting player
characters, they can also guide the story on track. The
non-player character can offer advice on how best to
proceed or warn the characters if they are straying too
far from the planned scenario.
That said, if players appear invested in the aforementioned painting or a random side trip, you can develop
a plot in the downtime between sessions to highlight
their work or tie it in to add further complexity to your
planned story.

While you should have a good idea of where you’re
headed with the story, you should also anticipate player
creativity. A gamemaster cannot plan for every eventuality, and you’ll need to be flexible in the face of clever
players. When a player takes the game in an unexpected direction, consider their action. This may mean
taking the entire story to an unexpected place, or this
might mean discouraging the idea and returning them
to the primary thrust of the story.
The key is to note what the players seem most interested
in doing. If you planned for a combat-heavy campaign,
but the players have used every opportunity to circumvent
violent encounters, you may want to adjust your expectations and storyline. In other words, if the players are having
fun exploring the setting in an unexpected way, you can
encourage them while improvising on the fly.
Also, don’t hesitate to ask the players why they did
something. Their answers can reveal their motivations
and provide insight on which clues they’ll gravitate
toward in future scenes.

Sometimes games simply go awry. Maybe the player
characters are too stubborn, or the antagonists
they’re fighting are too overpowered. With no luck
from the dice, player characters might be on the
verge of a ‘total party kill’, which grinds the game to
an immediate halt. When this happens, you may want
to ask the players what they would like to do.
Your goal should be creating a collaborative environment rather than a gamemaster versus player competition. So, don’t be afraid to talk about solutions
as a group. Listen to the preferences of the players
and see if you can come to a compromise that offers
them agency in the story even if that means losing a
character.
Remember that the members of a House are valuable
to that House and may be more useful as captives
or bargaining chips, taken prisoner rather than slain
outright. They may be ransomed back to the House in
return for some concession or favor or may awaken in
confinement with an opportunity to escape and learn
more about the nature of their enemies. A scene that
ends with the apparent death of the entire group may
cut to one where they awaken in a medical bay, being
tended to by a Suk doctor in the employ of their
apparent killers.
Some players may want a mulligan, a second chance
at the dice or resetting the scene to start again.
Others might be comfortable with the loss because
now, having played the game, they want to change
their concept. Player character death can be a
rewarding part of the campaign but should usually
involve options for continuing with your story.

M a n a g i n g P ers o n a lities
Players are people, and every person has preferences, opinions, and quirks. One person’s preference may come into conflict with someone else’s
opinion. In this way, as a gamemaster, not only
are you in charge of managing the story, but you
may also need to manage the personalities of the
players whether that is as a director or a referee.
Remember, you want to foster a collaborative
atmosphere where everyone can have fun playing.

There is a general misconception that a gamemaster needs to have every rule memorized.
This is simply not the case—this is why the book
exists. When the players face a challenge, you
serve as a referee for the rules, which may require
interpretation from time to time. If they have a
question, you can quickly review the rules, consult
the players, and decide. Some players, however,
focus entirely on the rules, reviewing every word
or sentence, upsetting the flow of the game. If
you cannot convince this player of the merits of
your interpretation, and if you cannot appeal to
their sense of mutual cooperation, then the easiest solution is to turn to the entire room and solve
rules disputes with a majority vote.

If a player spends more time focused on their
phone than on what is happening around the
table, then you should address this. The player
may be bored, or perhaps they don’t know how
to interact with the game and don’t want to
embarrass themselves by asking. The simplest
way to address disengaged players is to ask them
directly what they would like to do with their
character. If they’re unsure, ask them open-ended
questions. How does their player character feel
about this situation? Does the player character have any assets that might help the group?
Making sure that everyone has an opportunity to
take part is the best way to keep players invested
in the overall story.
With devices in specific, some game tables
employ a ‘no phones’ rule. Everyone can agree
to keep their phones in their pockets, or you can
leave a bowl out for everyone to put their phones
in until the end of the game session.

A more dramatic and adversarial method is to
add a point of Threat to the gamemaster’s pool
every time a player uses a phone at the table for
anything other than what might be supported by
the game. However, this is not always fair: it may
be that the player has some personal issue that
needs close attention. It’s always better to ask
then to assume.

REDUCING DISTRACTIONS

If most of the players want to do one thing while
a lone operator wants to do something else,
that’s perfectly acceptable. Side adventures and
risk takers can, at times, present new and interesting opportunities. But when that lone operator
decides to raid the Arrakeen Residency on their
own, and ends up getting captured, that is likely
unhelpful. Players are not only responsible for
their own enjoyment and wellbeing, but also for
their fellow players’ fun, too. The easiest solution
for this is to occasionally check in with the players
to make sure that everyone is all on the same
page and working toward the same goal.
However, when a player is monopolizing the
gamemaster’s attention, or their actions become
more of a distraction than a help, it might be time
to talk to that player privately. After the session
wraps and people are getting ready to leave, ask
if the problem player can stick around for a few
more minutes. Remain calm and keep the conversation friendly, but do your best to explain the
issue and work with the player to find solutions.
Most of the time you’ll find saying something to
the player is enough to curb the behavior.

Session 0 is when you determine what the players are
looking for in their experience: here’s where they create
their characters, to decide on the play-styles, and here
is where you can have a conversation about content.
While Dune’s setting is not by its nature controversial,
it does involve violence, slavery, oppression, eugenics,
genocide, torture, unwilling seduction, etc. Some players might find these issues or concepts problematic.
Using safety tools is not a way to sanitize and dull your
game or to police your creativity, but to make sure
everyone wants to play the same game. Roleplaying can
be a very intimate and intense experience, and a good
session can be very affecting. Your gaming sessions
should be charged with feeling and emotion, but not to
the point where events within them traumatize anyone.

C o m f o rt & C o n se n t
When talking to your players for the first time, ask about
their comfort levels. Ask them what subjects you should
avoid in your story. Ask them if they have any strong
phobias. Some players do not want to be emotionally
abused by a non-player character while others might
enjoy it. Some might have a physiological response to
detailed descriptions of gore. Another might have a
powerful aversion to insects.
If the players are uncomfortable voicing their concerns,
you can always create an anonymous survey. Make a list
of content themes you intend to include in your story. This
might be ‘domestic violence’, ‘gore’, ‘torture’, ‘spiders’,
etc. Assign a rating of 1 through 5 to each of them to
denote how likely a player is to interact with the content.
A rating of 1 would be unlikely whereas 5 would suggest
it’s unavoidable. Players can then mark which aspects they
don’t want to engage in. It’s your job to dial back and
avoid engaging that player without their consent.
And, if you do this during Session 0, you’ll avoid pitfalls
like basing a game on Caladan when half of your group is
afraid of water. But Session 0 isn’t the only time you should
talk about consent and content because a player is free
to give and take back their consent at any time. People
change day-to-day, and our responses to stimuli change.
So, you should try to gauge player reactions and check in
with them periodically as the story unfolds. It may be that
once trust is established, players are more open to some
of the issues they may have initially had a problem with.

Players portray characters in a game, but a player who
uses their character to conduct themselves in an inappropriate manner can sometimes use their creations
as a shield. They might say, “This is how my character
would act” to justify their actions. To be fair, you should
support your players when they want to explore darker
aspects and experiences, but not at the expense of
other players. If a player is portraying their character in
a way distressing to others, speak to that player privately to discuss how both they, and the other players
involved, can cooperate. Avoid criticizing the player but
be firm when reinforcing the idea that no single character motivation should supersede the overall emotional
safety and enjoyment of the other players.
This applies to gamemaster behavior as well. If you’re
using a non-player character in a way that makes the
players feel uncomfortable, the players must be able
to voice their concern. And even if you already alerted
players to a content theme in Session 0, it’s good practice to ask when it comes up in the game. If you plan to
have a scene where a villain tortures one of the player
characters, double check to ensure that all the players
are still comfortable with the scene taking place.
Often, issues surrounding a game stem from miscommunication rather than malicious intent. So long as
everyone is willing to listen to concerns and adjust
when necessary, you can resolve most issues swiftly
and with cooperation.

C h ec k i n g i n
wit h P l ay ers
As players portray their characters, dramatic and
dangerous situations can draw them in. Just like roller
coasters or scary movies, fun and excitement can
provoke emotional responses. It can be difficult to see
when events in a game session are overwhelming for
a player, and harder still to tell the difference between
the character’s reaction versus the player’s reaction to
something potentially upsetting. And it can be even
more difficult for a player in emotional distress to feel
comfortable enough to pause a game. They don’t want
to look like the killjoy, or appear weak, or they may be
worried they’ll ruin everyone’s fun.
As the one in charge, you should keep an eye out for
signs of anxiety, call for breaks when necessary, and
act as an advocate for players who might be too shy to
speak up. To make this easier, the following suggestions
are provided to make this easier for everyone.

Each player has a colored item such as a dice, token,
or badge. Each color is a level of consent. Green for
full consent or comfort, yellow stands for caution, and
red means ‘stop’ or ‘no’. The game starts with each of
the players displaying their green item. As you run the
game, the players can swap out or flash their colored
items per their level of comfort signaling their consent
or lack thereof to a scene’s content.

A final method for checking-in with players is to use a safe
word. At Session 0 or the start of game, everyone agrees
with a word or phrase, which when said, calls for an immediate five-minute break. If everyone has the freedom to
call for a pause, then hopefully everyone feels comfortable
using it. As a gamemaster, you can then follow up and ask
the player who called the break what aspect of the game
they were having difficulty with, if it is not obvious.

Dune can be daunting for any gamemaster to tackle,
regardless of their skill or experience. Even answering
the question of what makes an authentic ‘Dune adventure’ has an almost limitless set of possible answers.
For some, Dune deals with the tension and interplay
of power and freedom. How freedom requires power
to secure, but that acquiring power can ultimately limit
your own freedom and of course trample on the freedoms of others. For others, it is about ecology and the
consequences of exploiting resources, an indictment of
capitalism and about the cruelty of feudalism. Others
still might find it an evocative science-fictional adventure
story set in a challenging environment.
A Dune adventure or campaign may even illustrate
how prophecy and prescience further complicate the
very definition of freedom, and how that power comes
in many forms including but not limited to economic
manipulation, religious dogma, genetic engineering and
psychosocial conditioning. This depth can seem impossible to grasp in a way that’s authentic to the source
material, yet it gives players an experience that matches
up with their expectations, and lets you have fun with
your friends at the same time.
As with many complex settings, such depth creates a
tension that arises from the urge to present a gaming
experience that encapsulates everything that Dune has
to offer. This is a trap and an illusion. Larger themes can
be distilled in small and fleeting moments, even if they
never take the spotlight in your campaign. More importantly, the gamemaster’s choice to create an adventure

or campaign that focuses on one theme or setting
element above all others is not only a valid choice but a
necessary one. Part of creating a memorable adventure
or setting is determining what to emphasize as well as
what to de-emphasize, or ignore outright.
This is further complicated by the hyper-awareness and
preternatural introspection that is almost commonplace
among the accomplished humans who are likely to
stand against your player characters. A multitude of factors, such as the geriatric spice and the lack of thinking
machines, have produced a setting filled with humans
possessed of unnaturally long life, intense mental discipline, and weaponized emotional intelligence. While
these superhuman qualities make them formidable foes
and valuable allies, at their core they remain human and
vulnerable to irrational and reckless choices when their
core identity is challenged or threatened. Duncan Idaho,
for example, is a peerless Swordmaster, the equal of any
Sardaukar, but when confronted with a conflict of loyalties between his liege Leto and Leto’s consort, Jessica,
he becomes despondent and lashes out rashly.

M o v i n g B etwee n
A rc h itects & A g e n ts
Identifying what elements of the setting the story will
focus on not only helps clarify what kind of characters
will prosper in your story, it will also open the possibilities of how your players transition between the architect
and agent modes of play. These two modes of play
allow players to choose between their player characters

acting directly as agents or pulling the strings behind
the curtain as architects.
As an agent, a character is in the right place at the
right time. They can directly manipulate events and
have more options to change their approach in the
mission. However, they are directly in harm's way. If a
mission fails, they might be captured or worse. When
opting to work as an architect, a character has less
direct control over how the mission plays out. But they
are also for the most part insulated from its failures.
As the gamemaster, you need not worry which mode
is being used at any time, as they apply mainly at each
player’s whim. Which mode you are using depends
mainly on the assets being used. If the asset is equipment, the player character probably needs to be
present as an agent. But if the asset is a group or an
agent, they are probably being given their orders from
afar by an architect. If you are ever confused, just ask
the player which mode they would like to be in. But
remind them that it is hard to change their mind once
the mission is underway! The player characters need
not all be in the same mode either. Some might act as
agents breaking into a complex while another remains
at their base monitoring and using other agents to
cause a distraction for the complex’s defenses.
Depending on what they are doing, player characters
can move between each mode. If they send in a group
of soldiers to fight the Harkonnen and everything
goes wrong, they might be close enough to follow the
soldiers as agents. But if they are giving orders from
their home planet or a far away control center, that is
rarely possible. Remember that when using architect
mode, each architect only has the assets they have in
play. Many simply allow the architect to act, rather than
grant a bonus, given they are not present. But acting
through assets can be just as devastating as being on
the front line.
In a story highlighting grand political intrigue, a scene
of a few shadowy conspirators plotting against their
foes can seamlessly fade into a scene that plays through
the most critical parts of their scheme. You could even
weave one scene into the other using flashbacks and
‘flashforwards’, possibly even blurring the lines of which
scene occurs in the past and which is in the present. This
structure touches upon the themes of hyper-perception
and predeterminism but requires a great deal of trust
between players and the gamemaster.
Most of the time, scenes are linear, with architect-level
play dominating at the onset then, if appropriate, agentlevel gameplay coming to the fore. They can alternate,
but the transition from one dominant mode of play to
another is generally easiest to achieve and less jarring
for players. However, creativity is required to make sure
that each player is given their time to shine even if their
role in the plan itself is less dynamic. Confronting them

with unforeseen complications and exploiting their
hidden motivations to create dramatic moments that
can jeopardize their goals and the safety of their friends.
This is especially important when dealing with otherwise routine sequences where each character may have
a nearly-identical task to perform. Breaking these up
with unexpected twists or dramatic interludes can keep
gameplay fresh and engaging for everyone at the table.

Evoking The
P o wer o f F a it h
Faith and religion are often central to Dune, especially the exploration of the differences between the
two. Throughout the Imperium and its history, faith is
cynically exploited for political purposes, regardless
of the potential consequences. Religion itself is often
portrayed as deliberate social engineering of peoples’
beliefs to the advantage of groups of such as the Bene
Gesserit Sisterhood, or even the Spacing Guild with its
secrecy and traditions.
Honest expressions of faith or religion certainly have
their place within the Imperium, but a tenet of the setting is that all things that drive humans to action must
be examined or they can become dangerous. Blind faith
and dogmatic religions are twisted by heroes and villains alike to achieve their selfish ends, but without faith
there can be no progress on the Golden Path toward
enlightenment. Despite its cynical exploitation, religion
often has a positive role when it unites people towards a
common purpose against chaos and ruin.
When incorporating elements of faith and religion into
their stories, you should try to balance these meta-narratives implicit in the setting against the characters that
experience these concepts as authentic expressions of
themselves and their beliefs.
An adventure or campaign that incorporates a myth
planted by the Missionaria Protectiva into a local
religion does not invalidate the faith the characters
feel within that religious system. It only illustrates
that humans are often fallible and that they are
always tempted to subvert their most sacred creations to further their own material agendas. How
the characters react when this myth is used against
their interests is where the drama of the narrative
develops. Do they find a way to cling to their faith
while rejecting a dogma that is leading them to ruin,
or do they accept that their identity is too tied to the
institutional practice of their faith to avoid the traps
set for them? Both choices are dramatic and allow
the player characters to explore their own internal
dynamics in a contest with the outside forces pitted
against them. Regardless of the outcome, their faith
is tested and their understanding of that facet of
themselves can be altered as well.

P o rtr ay i n g t h e
G a l a ctic S c a le
Just as Dune can be imposing in its depth, the
breadth of that the Imperium, encompassing a vast
galactic empire, poses unique challenges in the
form of its scale. This scale serves its epic themes
perfectly, illustrating the unseen patterns of human
lives and individual choices can have lasting impact
on all of creation.
The availability of nearly instantaneous interstellar
travel may suggest adventures where adventurers
solve problems and then move on to the next solar
system, but this structure plays against the strengths
of the setting. Dune lends itself to epic stories that
focus on individuals and their exertion of will against
a seemingly predetermistic universe. Much like the
characters, planets themselves are multidimensional
and composed of unique and competing political,
economic, and environmental factors.
Arrakis is not just a desert planet populated by
warrior nomads. Though it is often misrepresented in that way, it is arguably the fulcrum of
the Imperium’s geopolitical and economic power:
the source of spice, the commodity that fuels
and sustains the the entire galactic civilization.
Because of that, its native population’s desire for
self-determination is ignored, as Imperial factions vie for control of the planet’s irreplaceable
resource. Arrakis itself is a character, and while its
peculiar geography, creatures and resources are
important, it is how humans interact with those
peculiarities that create drama.
A major aspect of Dune as a setting is that it’s about
people and their place in the universe, and how
their struggles are more often determined by how
they confront internal conflicts than by which planet
they happen to be standing upon.
As the gamemaster, you should be willing to explore
the setting beyond Arrakis, but understand that
just like Arrakis, every planet brings with it a depth
beyond scenery or a single note of drama. Caladan,
the beloved ocean planet of House Atreides, is
more than just a contrast to Arrakis' desert. Caladan
is the counterpoint of the familiar to the Atreides
once they arrive on Arrakis, forcing them to adapt
and ultimately change the universe in the process.
Where Caladan represented the fully realized center
of their old power, Arrakis embodies the potential
seed of their new power. In the tension between
these two worlds, and in what the Atreides bring
with them both materially and psychologically from
the old to the new, is the story of their struggle,
triumph and apotheosis.

T h e C h a lle n g es
o f T ec h n o l o g y
Often, advanced technology can create a challenge
within a game, as miraculous devices can suddenly
negate all the familiar obstacles that usually confront
player characters. To some degree the setting negates
many of these concerns: few are the problems in the
Imperium that can be solved solely by the application
of technology, and the reliance upon technology itself
is a cautionary tale around which the entire Imperium
was founded. If anything, unchecked use of technology
has proven time and again to be ruinous, as demonstrated in the history of the Imperium, or deleterious to
the soul, such as is embodied by the ‘detestable’ and
technocratic Tleilaxu.
The unique elements of Dune’s setting creates new
dynamics and challenges. Body shields produced by
Holtzman generators reduce the effectiveness and ubiquity of powerful ranged weapons, meaning most action
not on the battlefield will be up close and personal. The
Butlerian Jihad and later religious proscription has eradicated the use of thinking machines, so many advanced
computational tasks require dedicated and highly
trained specialists. Without its dependence on machines
humans expanded their own capabilities, some even
honing skills bordering on the supernatural.
Thus, despite all of the titanic monsters, genetic
engineering, and mind-bending powers, the Imperium embodies a very human future. Humankind and
its capacity for both reason and recklessness is at its
center. It is in the hands of humans that these great
powers become either the path to a golden future or
to the dreadful arafel, the cloud-darkness at the end of
the universe.

This is further complicated by the more practical and
subtle uses of prescience as a method of surveillance. At
its most extreme, seeing prescient patterns and outcomes can mean an almost omniscient ability to see and
foresee the actions of allies and enemies alike. This is
particularly dangerous if these powers are a closely-held
secret, as the best defenses against prescience require
foreknowledge of such a capability.

the Fremen language and religious movements.

treated with respect. Thus, it is advised to use
utmost care if turning to real-world cultures,

As gamemaster, you should understand how such capabilities will distort the outcome of events in a story and
how both player characters and non-player characters
alike will react to such capabilities. While certain means of
avoiding prescience—the presence of Guild Navigators
or later technology such as no-chambers will eventually
partly counter it—the most reliable method of countering
prophetic power will be the active machinations of other
prescient beings. It is often difficult for prescient beings
to see and predict outcomes that directly involve the
actions of others with this ability. Somehow their ability to
observe and interpret the patterns of the future are either
themselves variables outside of the larger pattern, or
threads within the pattern too subtle for all but the most
talented prescient beings to perceive.
Even individuals who are not fully prescient but have the
potential for such power, can interfere with a prophet’s
ability to divine the future. In particular, Guild Navigators are known to disrupt prescient sight in chaotic ways,
while unrealized or failed attempts at the Kwisatz Haderach seem to be completely invisible to prophetic sight.
Regardless of the reasons, those that rely too heavily on
prophetic abilities risk locking themselves into futures
with unforeseen consequences just beyond the edge
of their prescience, or they see their carefully-laid plans
toppled by the actions of another they could not see.
Once this weakness in prophecy is realized, it becomes
exploitable by those seeking to defend against prescience. Plotters may seek the presence of a Guild Navigator to cloak their secret meeting, and failed products of
the Bene Gesserit breeding program become deadly
assassins that even the inner eye cannot see.

Additionally, hyper-perceptive characters can present challenges, especially in games hinging on intrigue and mystery.
Advanced machines that emulate the qualities or shape of
humankind are considered profane, as is allowing technology said to ‘disfigure the soul‘. As described extensively
in the history depicted within Chapter 2: The Known Universe, this prohibition has led to the breeding and training
of specialized humans capable of awesome feats of mental
calculation, physical prowess, and interpersonal empathy.
Just as human Mentats replace computers, others are
trained and shaped to act with inhuman speed or perceive
the slightest changes in another’s micro-expressions. The
elite Imperial Sardaukar of the Padishah Emperor are
honed by a secret and brutal training program that makes
them into the most feared fighting force in the Imperium.
Guild Navigators are perhaps the most profound example
of this, being mutated by excessive exposure to spice
to force upon them prescience by which they can plot
courses across the galaxy.
Finally, the Bene Gesserit Sisterhood uses a carefully monitored breeding program, secret prana-bindu techniques,
and precise applications of the mind-expanding spice to
create an elite cadre of supernaturally insightful Reverend
Mothers. While their prescience is limited, the Bene Gesserit are arguably the most powerful organization in the
Imperium before the emergence of the Kwisatz Haderach,
in turn a direct result of their machinations.

When stories incorporate characters with such superhuman traits, it can be difficult to deal with them in a way that
honors their power without disrupting the agency of the
other player characters, of retaining any cohesion of the
adventure or campaign being played. Political machinations and subtle intrigues are a cornerstone of the setting, and revolutionaries must often navigate a reality that
includes human lie detectors such as the Bene Gesserit or
act in ways unanticipated by Mentats. The Imperium is not
a forgiving setting for amateur conspirators, and intrigues
often have layers of measures and countermeasures that
are meant to defeat the superhuman abilities of one’s rivals.
Traps are often set for enemies in such a way that their
discovery and defeat begin a sequence of events that bring

misfortune on their foes by the consequences of their own
reaction. As the gamemaster, you should keep in mind that
the most dangerous individuals in the Imperium are those
who have become adept at navigating these threats to
their independence. Such foes rarely take the direct route
to achieve their goals, preferring the indirect or unexpected
routes. An indirect or seemingly unpredictable approach to
a goal hides one’s true motivations and invites the player
characters to defeat themselves with reckless action, potentially exposing their own goals to attack.
An enemy spy is discovered within the player characters’ entourage. While at first this seems like a major
coup for the players, how they choose to deal with this
spy will determine the true implications of this ploy.

@ If they interrogate the spy, they may be exposed
to false information planted within her memory
that could lead down a path of their enemy’s
choosing.
Perhaps the false spy even implicates a trusted ally
as a traitor, backed with the certainty of false memories meant specifically to circumvent powers such as
hyper-perception or the Voice.
Intrigues run deep and take on these indirect and labyrinthine routes because humankind has evolved powers
capable of piercing the illusion of lesser ploys. Many plots
require a sacrifice, a pawn to be captured and left in the
power of one’s enemies. Then one’s true forces can be
brought to bear while enemies are distracted. In the most
convoluted of these feints, the pawn itself is revealed to
be empowered by its proximity to its captors.
Ultimately, for a gamemaster, all these issues should
present more opportunity than obstacle. Every action an
enemy takes should be treated with distrust, so much so
that even the most blatant and superficially obvious ploy is
viewed as a potential stratagem whose true nature has yet
to be revealed. Such is life within the Imperium for those
connected to the noble Houses: always to be on the alert
for subterfuge, even when there is none. The most dangerous threat is that which has not yet been perceived, and
often it is quite enough to create the illusion of danger, to
divert an enemy’s attention from one’s true purpose.

A llies & A d v ers a ries
To attempt an understanding of Muad’Dib without understanding his mortal enemies,
the Harkonnens, is to attempt seeing Truth without knowing Falsehood. It is the
attempt to see the Light without knowing Darkness. It cannot be.
—from “Manual of Muad’Dib” by the Princess Irulan

hile Arrakis and the other planets in the Imperium are mysterious and intriguing places, it
is the people of Dune and their agenda that
create the plot and adventure. The machinations of each of the various characters — be
it due to greed, hatred, or love — are what drives each
encounter and adventure, whether it leads to exultation or
tragedy.

In this chapter we offer an array of characters for the
gamemaster to use in their campaign, including a selection of ‘off-the-rack’ non-player characters. However, we
begin with detail on the major characters in the initial saga
of Dune
Dune,, as they stand at its beginning. They might serve
as inspiration for your own characters and non-player characters or even become part of your campaign. You might
even play them as characters (but remember their talents
currently apply to non-player characters). In your campaign, it will be up to you to decide if they become allies
or adversaries of your player characters’ House. They may
follow their established destiny, but it is equally possible
their fate may be changed by their encounter with your
player characters.
Minor and Notable NPCs are created in the same way as
Supporting characters of the same rank (see p.136-137).
They use Momentum and Determination in a different way
(see below) and instead of picking a Talent may instead
choose from the NPC Special Abilities (see table on p.328).

N P C s : M o me n t u m , & D etermi n ati o n
For reasons of keeping gameplay moving, nonplayer characters do not quite follow the same
rules as player characters.
Commonly, non-player characters (at least, those
in need of stats and making skill tests) operate as
opponents to the player characters. The non-player
characters in this chapter have been written under
that assumption. Rather than spending Momentum,
their abilities spend points of Threat from the gamemaster’s pool. Remember that non-player characters can save their unused Momentum as Threat.
If you have a non-player character used as an ally
to the players, their abilities spend Momentum
instead, though they can only use Momentum from
the group pool if the players agree to it.
Non-player characters do not have Determination as do player characters. Instead, a non-player
character adds 3 points to Threat whenever they

would gain a point of Determination, and they may
spend 3 Threat to gain the benefits of spending a
point of Determination. The non-player characters
in this chapter have had some abilities altered to
reflect this.
Finally, non-player characters do not typically have
a reason to Obtain Information as players do. The
gamemaster is likely to be much more knowledgeable about a situation than the non-player characters are, but should attempt to role-play non-player
characters based on the knowledge they possess.
However, non-player characters can still use Obtain
Information to know information about the player
characters, often as a prompt to call out details
about them. With particularly observant characters, such as Bene Gesserit and Mentats, this may
allow the gamemaster to ask the players for their
characters’ thoughts and feelings, or even secrets
about them.

Homeworld: Caladan
Other Holdings: None
Banners and Arms: Colors: Green & Black
		
Crest: Hawk
House Traits: Honorable, Popular
Primary Domains: Farming (Produce) – Pundi Rice
Secondary Domains: Farming (Produce) – Moonfish, Military (Expertise) Tacticians, Instructors,
Political (Understanding) – Negotiation
House Atreides is one of the oldest and most respected Houses of the Landsraad. While it is not the
most powerful, it has carved out an important niche in the Imperium. It has not been responsible for
many powerful victories since distinguishing itself at the Battle of Corrin — but it has never really taken
any steps backward, managing a slow and steady rise to power.
The main export of House Atreides is a crop called ‘pundi rice’. This rice is both nutritious and
travels well and given the fair price the Atreides charge it has become a staple food for most of
the Imperium. This focus on a minor (but now ubiquitous) farming crop, rather than military might
or deadly poisons, has also made the Atreides seem less threatening to the other Houses. This has
allowed them to make many friends among the Imperium and secure several allies.
Sadly, the rise in popularity of House Atreides has not gone unnoticed. The Emperor has come to
fear that the Atreides might soon have enough allies to be able to challenge House Corrino for the
throne. This has driven the Emperor to begin a plot to destroy House Atreides, using their old enemy,
House Harkonnen.

D u k e L et o A treides
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Noble, Fair and Honorable

@ Bolster: Leto may spend 2 Threat to allow an ally to

re-roll his dice pool. He may use Discipline instead of
his skill.

@ Direct: Once per scene, Leto can give an ally an
extra action on his turn.

Communicate test to address a group, select a
number of those people equal to his Communicate
skill. They may re-roll a single d20 on their next
test that aligns with the drive used on Leto’s
Communicate test.

History may only remember Duke Leto Atreides as the
father of Paul, but the Duke was a most able man of an
able time. Under his command the Atreides rose to such
power and popularity amongst their peers as to threaten
the Emperor himself.
Leto took up the dukedom while still a young man following the death of his father, Duke Paulus, in a bullfighting accident. The young Duke was forced to take
on the twin burdens of mourning his father and leading
his House during a turbulent time. The early years of his
reign on Caladan were marked by conflicts both subtle
and overt with the age-old rivals of the Atreides, House
Harkonnen. When the Bene Tleilax took control of Ix,
Leto continued to give the Ixian House Vernius sanctuary despite the political damage it could potentially
have done. Time and again, the Duke’s choices led to
both his increasing popularity in the Landsraad and the
jealousy and suspicions of the Imperial throne.
The Duke was also noted for the company he kept. A
superb judge of character, Leto gathered around him
retainers and comrades who would prove to be among
the most talented and insightful advisors gathered anywhere in the universe. That men such as Gurney Halleck
and Duncan Idaho would follow the Duke was seen as a
testament to his character.
Throughout these times Leto distinguished himself as a
fair ruler, as concerned for his subjects as for the members of his own family. While he was rightly considered
a just and good man, he was nevertheless remarkably
pragmatic. Despite being utterly devoted to his love,
the concubine Jessica, Leto never married her, shrewdly
choosing to keep the possibility of marriage between
himself and a noblewoman of another House as a bargaining incentive.
When the Emperor offered the Atreides the fiefdom of
Arrakis and control of the spice, the Duke easily recognized it for the trap it was, but he took the gambit willingly, knowing that his duty as a leader of men required
him to rise to meet even the deadliest challenge.

L a dy J essic a
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Etiquette, Faction Lore
(Bene Gesserit)

Traits: Consort, Bene Gesserit, Dedicated, and Devoted

@ Hyperawareness: Whenever Jessica spends Threat
to Obtain Information, she may know two pieces of
information about a player character for each point
spent. Further, the limits of what others would be
able to notice do not apply to her.

It should have been a simple endeavor, but for one
problem: Jessica fell in love with the Duke, who
returned her feelings. Unusually for a Bene Gesserit,
Jessica refused to ignore her emotions and do as she
was told. Knowing that Leto wanted a son as an heir
she chose to bear a boy rather than a girl as her first
child. The Sisterhood was livid but could do little. With
typical pragmatism they decided that they could wait a
few more years for Jessica to bear a daughter as well.
However, her actions nearly made Jessica an outcast.
She was forced to make concessions to the Sisterhood
and allow them to test Paul when he came of age.
Despite her loyalties and love for the Bene Gesserit,
Jessica proved to be very much her own creature. Ultimately, it seemed, her love for the Duke and their son,
and her fealty to House Atreides, would prove stronger
than her duty to the Sisterhood, a fact that would have
far-reaching repercussions.

@ Passive Scrutiny: When Jessica enters a scene, she
may know one piece of hidden information as if
she’d spent Threat to Obtain Information.

@ Prana-Bindu: Jessica can re-roll 1d20 on a Move or
Discipline test.

@ Voice: Jessica can spend up to 3 points of Threat to
buy automatic successes on a Communicate test (1
success/point).

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Noble Scion, Wise Beyond His Years, Destined
for Greatness
TALENTS
@ Cool Under Pressure (Battle): Paul may
automatically succeed on a Battle skill test by
spending 3 Threat (1 Determination).

@ Direct: Once per scene, Paul may give an ally an
extra action on his turn.

@ Prana-Bindu: Paul may re-roll 1d20 on a Move or
Discipline test.

@ The Slow Blade: Paul may ignore an enemy asset in

a duel or skirmish when he buys additional dice with
Threat while making an attack.

@ Voice: Paul may spend up to 3 points of Threat to

buy automatic successes on a Communicate test (1
success/point).

The first and only child of Duke Leto Atreides and his concubine, the Bene Gesserit adept Lady Jessica, Paul was heir
apparent to the Atreides dynasty. A boy of only fifteen, none
could foresee how his destiny would shake the universe.
Paul’s very existence was an issue of secret contention
amongst the Bene Gesserit who had ordered his mother to
bear a daughter for Duke Leto. Conceived and born during
a turbulent time for the Atreides, Paul was raised with great
love by his parents. Despite the dangerous political turmoil
in which House Atreides was embroiled, Paul’s childhood
was sheltered from the worst dangers.
As he grew older, Paul received tutelage from the Atreides’
trusted retainers. The Duke had gathered about him some
of the greatest men of his age: the renowned swordmaster
Duncan Idaho, the warrior-troubadour Gurney Halleck, and
the Mentat Thufir Hawat, among others. These experts in
their fields provided Paul a superlative education and he
proved to be a fine student.
By the age of fifteen Paul Atreides had been groomed
for greatness, not least by his mother. The Lady Jessica,
though only an adept of the Bene Gesserit, sensed a great
fate around her son. Knowing that Paul’s birth interrupted
generations of breeding plans by the Reverend Mothers, she
suspected he might even be the fabled Kwisatz Haderach,
the super-being that the Sisterhood sought to control for
itself. Accordingly, she trained Paul in the mysteries of the
Bene Gesserit, forgoing the usual order of instruction that
he might be prepared for the dangerous times she foresaw.
This decision was given grudging approval by the Reverend
Mother Gaius Mohiam after she administered to Paul the
dreaded gom jabbar.
When the Emperor ordered House Atreides to take control
of Arrakis and the harvesting of spice, Paul was as prepared
for what came next as any boy could possibly be. Though yet
untested in command and combat, Paul bore all the makings of a great leader. From his father he’d learned a keen
sense of justice and empathy, tempered with steely resolve.
From his mother, an appreciation for political subtlety and
the philosophies of the Bene Gesserit. His parents were as
devoted to him as he was to them, and they gave him every
possible advantage against the many dangers they foresaw
in his future. Paul would one day rule House Atreides, and
the Duke and his concubine knew that the greatest dangers
imaginable would one day be his alone to face.
But Paul was still growing into manhood. He’d been
groomed to follow in his father’s footsteps but had not yet
faced the hardest realities of leadership. He was not naïve,
but he was inexperienced in the vicious maneuvering of the
Imperial throne and the Houses of the Landsraad, to say
nothing of the subtlest machinations of the Guild and Bene
Gesserit.
At the beginning of the Arrakis Affair, Paul Atreides stood
unknowingly at a nexus of events that would prove to
change the very order of humanity itself. He had begun
to have troubling dreams of a future in which he alone
would make decisions with ramifications millennia in their
unfolding.

G u r n e y H a llec k
DRIVE

SKILL

The Atreides have given me everything, I will do
the same in return.

Truth’s a complex thing, but we know it when we
see it.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Warrior, Jongleur
TALENTS
@ Bolster: Gurney can spend 2 Threat to allow an ally to re-roll their dice
pool. They may use Gurney’s Discipline instead of their skill.

@ The Reason I Fight (Duty): When Gurney attempts a Battle test using

the chosen drive, and the drive’s statement aligns with the action being
attempted, he may re-roll 1d20.

@ The Slow Blade: Gurney may ignore an enemy asset in a duel or skirmish
when he buys additional dice with Threat while making an attack.

adventure, Gurney begins with a pool of 3 Threat (equivalent to 1
Determination) which only he may use and which may only be used on an
action in direct service to House Atreides.

The Warmaster of House Atreides,
Gurney Halleck is one of the most
reputed fighters in the Imperium,
renowned for his prowess in combat
and his equal skill as a poet and
musician.
Born in the slave pits of Giedi Prime,
Halleck knew a life of privation and
suffering. His time under the Harkonnen boot left scars both in body and
soul, but never broke his spirit. He
still bears the scars of an inkvine lash
across his jaw, and his own sister was
murdered by the Harkonnens, an act
he has never forgiven.
After his escape from Giedi Prime,
Halleck became embroiled in conflicts involving House Vernius of Ix,
eventually leading to his arrival on
Caladan and his association with
the Atreides. In time, his service
to the Atreides became more than
a matter of employ. Their just and
noble ways touched him deeply, and
he soon came to view the Duke and
his family as his own.
Halleck was a man of contradictions.
The hardness of his earlier life left
him an ugly man, but his heart was
filled with poetry. His skill with all
manner of weapons was equaled by
his mastery of the baliset and music.
His ruthlessness against his enemies
was matched only by the kindness
he bore for those he loved.
Quick with an appropriate quotation
or poem, Halleck became a close
friend and mentor to the young Paul
Atreides. He taught the young noble
to fight with shield and kindjal and
tutored him in the finer points of the
arts. He saw young Paul as the son
he never had and would willingly
give his life for him, as he would for
any of the Atreides.
In the days leading up to the Atreides investiture of Arrakis, Halleck
was one of the key members of the
Duke’s war council, plotting strategy
and tactics and doing everything
possible to thwart the Harkonnens.
In the years to come his loyalty
would be tested and proven again
and again.

T h u f ir H awat
DRIVE
D U T Y:

SKILL

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Hawat had served the Atreides for three generations by
the time of the Arrakis Affair. By the time Leto inherited
the dukedom Hawat had established security protocols
and a vast network of spies honed for over a century.
Hawat’s counsel was a large part of Leto’s success in the
following years, and the aged Mentat was a part of the
Duke’s trusted inner circle, as he had been for the dukes
before him.
Hawat was an exceptionally talented Mentat, able to compute likely outcomes with a high degree of accuracy. His
natural aptitude was enormous, but the breadth and depth
of his intelligence network provided him an unparalleled
quality of data from which he could operate. Hawat’s spies
were thought to be insinuated even amongst the intelligence operations of the Imperial House.

FOCUSES

As the Atreides Master of Assassins, Hawat was instrumental in both counterespionage and the elimination
of dangerous opposition elements. While the Atreides
always took pains to abide by the formal rules of kanly
in such disputes, Hawat’s ruthlessness saw that the
House rarely paid the price of abiding by the spirit of
the law when their opponents did not. His love for the
Atreides ensured that Hawat provided the most superlative service possible of a Mentat, extending even to the
training of Paul Atreides in his dark arts.

Assassination, Strategy

Traits: Mentat, Insightful and Resourceful, Spymaster
TALENTS
@ Advisor (Understand): Thufir may re-roll a single d20
in the dice pool of an ally he assists.

d20 gained from spending Threat on an Understand
skill test.

@ Mentat Discipline: Thufir may add two automatic

successes on all Understand tests he attempts when
remembering facts or data.

@ Mind Palace: Thufir may revisit a scene in his mind
and attempt to Obtain Information.

D u n c a n I da h o
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Charismatic Survivor, Ginaz Swordmaster
TALENTS
@ Bold (Battle): Duncan may re-roll a d20 gained from spending Threat on
a Battle skill test.

@ Driven: After Duncan spends 3 Threat for 1 point of Determination,

roll 1d20. If he rolls equal to or under his Discipline rating (by itself), he
immediately regains those spent Threat.

@ Make Haste: Duncan may choose to suffer one additional complication

in a Move test to gain one automatic success. During any conflict, he may
spend 1 Threat to take the first action, regardless of who would otherwise
act first.

@ Master-at-Arms: At the start of a duel, skirmish, or battle, Duncan can

spend 1 point of Threat to increase a martial asset he has by +1 Quality
for that conflict.

Swordmaster of House Atreides,
Duncan Idaho was one of the finest
warriors in the universe. Fiercely loyal
to the Duke and his son, he was their
bodyguard and trusted friend.
Brought up on Giedi Prime, Idaho was
trained to be a prey animal, for the
entertainment of Rabban Harkonnen,
while Duncan was only a boy. However, he managed to escape certain
death at the hands of his hunters and
find his way to Caladan. When he saw
how different the Atreides were from
the brutal Harkonnens, he offered his
undying loyalty to Duke Paulus. He
showed such steadfast dedication to
the Atreides, no matter what task was
given to him, that Leto sent him for
training with the Ginaz swordmasters,
where he excelled.
In the years that followed Idaho
proved himself time and again against
the Atreides enemies, especially the
hated Harkonnens. His deeds were
many and fearsome, and he was wellliked by the people of Caladan and
the other vassals of the House.
A notably handsome man, Idaho was
also known for his many dalliances and
love affairs. His reputation, good looks,
and irreverent attitude made him a
subject of popular attention. Despite
this, his seriousness was never in question when it came to his duty. Notable
among these duties was his service as
fighting instructor, and eventually close
friend, to the young Paul Atreides.
Despite his love of the Atreides, he
never fully trusted the Lady Jessica.
Though he had great affection for her,
he privately worried that her ties to the
Bene Gesserit might one day compel
her against her family.
When Duke Leto accepted the fiefdom of Arrakis, Idaho was among the
first envoys he sent to that planet.
He hoped that the people of Dune
might judge House Atreides on the
strength of Idaho’s character, and
that the charismatic warrior might be
instrumental in forging alliances that
their House could count upon in the
turbulent times that lay ahead.

D r . W elli n g t o n Y u e h
DRIVE

My course of action is terrible,
yet I must find a way to do right.

SKILL
B AT T L E :

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

FOCUSES

Traits: Suk Doctor, Despises the Harkonnens
TALENTS
@ Advisor (Understand): Yueh may re-roll a single d20
in the dice pool of an ally he assists.

When the Atreides left for Arrakis they carried with
them the most reluctant of traitors-in-waiting. Yueh was
wracked by the pressures of the likely futile chance to
recover his wife, his hatred for the Harkonnens, and his
guilt at knowing he would soon betray the people he
respected most in the universe.
The results of Yueh’s tortured psyche would have results
surprising to all involved.

into harming a human automatically fails, and he
automatically succeeds on any skill test to persuade
another that he intends them no harm. Attempts by
the Harkonnens are exempt from this talent as they
have found Yueh’s weakness — the safety of his wife
Wanna.

@ Intense Study: Once per scene, Yueh may use his

Understand skill on a single skill test instead of any
other skill, and he is counted as having a focus for
that test.

Homeworld: Giedi Prime
Other Holdings: Lankiveil, Arrakis (Governorship)
Banners and Arms: Colors: Red & Black
		
Crest: Sigil
House Traits: Brutal, Cunning
Primary Domains: Farming (Produce) – Spice (Current Governors of Arrakis)
Secondary Domains: Industrial (Produce) – Refined Alloys, Industrial (Produce) – Mass-produced Goods.
The name Harkonnen is synonymous with brutality, cruelty, and ambition. Among the great Houses of
the Landsraad none are as feared and few are as envied as House Harkonnen.
The Harkonnens labored as a House Minor for many centuries, near-outcasts as the result of an ancient
betrayal for which they have always blamed the Atreides. Only in comparatively recent times did the
Harkonnens manage to gain the wealth and resources to become recognized as a Great House, an
accomplishment soaked in blood and born of quiet betrayals.
Their capital and homeworld is the planet Giedi Prime. An industrialized world, the lower castes are held in
slavery or near-slavery under the savage whip of Harkonnen rule. The Harkonnens and their associated noble
families relished cruelty, and public bloodsports are a leading form of entertainment.
For decades, Siridar Baron Vladimir Harkonnen had been entrusted by the Emperor with the management
of spice on the fiefdom of Arrakis (taking over from House Richese). There, the Baron and his family have
crushed the planet’s natives in order to squeeze every last milligram of spice wealth into their coffers. Few
outside Arrakis really care how the people are treated as long as the spice flows.
Another House might be content to have control of the greatest source of wealth in the known universe,
but not the Harkonnens. Baron Vladimir has many plans for himself and his dynasty to further their ambitions — ambitions for which they are capable of any act, no matter how terrible.

S iridar B aron V ladimir H arkonnen
DRIVE

SKILL

DISCIPLINE:

Espionage

MOVE:

Traits: Noble, Cunning and Cruel
TALENTS
@ Binding Promise: The Baron may spend 1, 2, or 3
points of Threat to make an agreement binding.
To break it, an opponent must spend twice this in
Momentum.

attempts a test to detect danger or hidden enemies,
he reduces the Difficulty by 2, to a minimum of 0. In
addition, once per scene, he can increase the cost for
an opponent to Keep the Initiative by +2.

@ Direct: Once per scene, Baron Harkonnen can give

A corpulent and venal man, the Baron took great pleasure in the discomfort his appearance caused in others.
So fat that he required a suspensor harness for mobility, Baron Harkonnen delighted in making his allies and
rivals alike uncomfortable. As a younger man he took
great pride in his body, until a virulent disease corrupted
his hard work. The loss of his athletic physique remained
a sore point to the Baron, although he hid this vanity to
all but those who knew him well.
Baron Harkonnen was a man of brutal policies but was
possessed of a subtle mind. Having raised his House
to untold heights of power, his schemes and plots were
multitudinous, some decades in the offing. He was a
man who did not brook failure in his subordinates, and
even his own heirs feared and hated him, a fact of which
he was keenly aware and, indeed, encouraged. His
closest confidant was the twisted Mentat Piter de Vries,
chosen by the Baron precisely for his perverse and cynical mind. It was de Vries whom the Baron encouraged to
play his nephews against one another to better control
them. This cruelty in policy dripped down to every level
of the House, and those that toiled under the Harkonnens suffered terribly.

FOCUSES

an ally an extra action on his turn.

trait whenever he spends Threat for extra dice on a
Communicate test.

P iter de V ries
DRIVE

Absolute truth is required when forging a more
useful truth.

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Assassination

Traits: Twisted Mentat, Killer
TALENTS
@ Advisor (Understand): Piter may re-roll a single d20 in the dice pool of
an ally he assists.

@ Driven: After Piter spends Threat to gain the use of Determination,

roll 1d20. If he rolls equal to or under his Discipline rating (by itself), he
immediately regains that spent Threat.

@ Mentat Discipline: Add two automatic successes on all Understand tests
Piter attempts when remembering facts or data.

@ Twisted Mentat: Piter gains 1 bonus point of Threat when he adds

to Threat on an Understand test. He may only use this to Obtain
Information, or to create a trait exploiting an opponent’s weakness or
causing pain and suffering.

Piter de Vries was a vicious, sadistic,
and brilliant Mentat, and perhaps
the closest approximation of a friend
to Baron Vladimir Harkonnen. A
product of Bene Tleilax ‘twisting’, de
Vries served as House Harkonnen’s
primary Mentat, working to further
his master’s ambitions.
Where standard Mentats are
meticulously trained and conditioned to act without base emotion,
de Vries’ worst tendencies had all
been encouraged. While he still
possessed the razor-sharp insight
of any other Mentat, he was prone
to adding cruel flourishes to plans
crafted from the output of his computations. This sadism was highly
appealing to the Baron, who valued
him greatly but never fully trusted
him or considered him anything but
expendable.
De Vries’ greatest accomplishment
was the breaking of Dr. Wellington Yueh’s Suk conditioning in the
furtherance of the Baron’s agenda.
Just how the Mentat accomplished
this seemingly impossible feat
remains poorly understood, but it is
known he utilized the kidnapping of
the doctor’s wife as a psychological
fulcrum against which his conditioning was shattered.
De Vries commanded an intelligence
network to rival that of any power in
the Imperium and schemed ceaselessly on behalf of the Harkonnens,
and likely, himself. The extent of the
evils he accomplished in his life can
only be guessed.

F e y d - R a u t ha
DRIVE

@ The Slow Blade: Feyd may ignore an enemy asset in

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

The favored protégé of Baron Harkonnen, Feyd was as
beautiful as his mentor was repulsive, and as deadly as
almost any man alive. The young noble was noted for a
cruel streak surprising even by Harkonnen standards and
was poised on the edge of greatness, in no small part
due to his existence as another part of the far-ranging
Bene Gesserit breeding program.
Of the baron’s two nephews and chosen heirs, Feyd
was the obvious favorite. The Baron’s attraction to
Feyd helped forgive many of his faults and indulge his
desires. The young man was an accomplished fighter
and gladiatorial combatant as a teenager and had
already dispatched a great number of slaves in the
arena before the age of 20. Feyd favored poisoned
blades and was known to illustrate the effects of various
toxins on his dying opponents for the entertainment of
the audience. However, great care was always taken to
ensure no gladiator slave stood a chance of actually winning, granting Feyd an inflated view of his combat skill.

a duel or skirmish when he buys additional dice with
Threat while making an attack.

While he lacked the experience of command, Feyd possessed a sharp mind, and was carefully tutored by the
twisted Mentat Piter de Vries. The Baron himself took
pains to educate young Feyd, seeing in the cruel young
man a potential heir to not just the Harkonnen barony
but to the Empire he hoped to soon control.

Traits: Duelist, Arrogant and Ruthless
TALENTS
@ Bold (Battle): Feyd may re-roll a d20 gained from
spending Threat on a Battle skill test.

@ Decisive Action: After successfully removing an

enemy asset with Battle, Feyd may remove a second
enemy asset by spending 2 Threat.

@ Rapid Maneuver: When attempting a skill test to

reach a destination quickly when moving on foot or
in a vehicle, Feyd can reduce the Difficulty by 1 for
attempts to reach a destination quickly by any means.
In a conflict, when Feyd moves an asset, he may move
it an additional zone by spending 1 point of Threat.

a Battle test using the chosen drive, and the drive’s
statement aligns with the action being attempted, he
may re-roll 1d20.

G l o ss u ‘ T h e B e a st ’ R a bb a n
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Thuggish Tyrant, Brutal and Vicious
TALENTS
@ Bold (Battle): Rabban may re-roll a d20 gained from
spending Threat on a Battle skill test.

additional complication in a Move test to gain one
automatic success. During any conflict, he may spend
1 Threat to take the first action, regardless of who
would otherwise act first.

or battle, Rabban may spend 1 point of Threat to
increase a martial asset he has by +1 Quality for that
conflict.

The eldest of the two Rabban brothers, Glossu was as
brutal as his sibling was sly. Infamous as a brute tyrant,
Rabban was one of the most hated men of his time.
Having killed his father on their homeworld of Lankiveil,
Rabban was taken under the wing of Baron Harkonnen
who, lacking progeny of his own, saw that his nephews
might suffice to become his heirs. Of the two, Rabban
proved a useful tool for brutality but little else. The
Baron tried to train him in the art of statecraft and subtle
deception. However, Rabban never really understood
the complexities of politics and often ruined a plan by
taking direct action in an attempt to impress the Baron.
It wasn’t long before Baron Vladimir turned his attention
to Feyd, although Rabban failed to notice he was out
of favor. This is mainly because the Baron granted him
the governance of Arrakis. ‘The Beast’ brutalized the
population of Arrakis, and the native Fremen in particular, for many years. He was too unwise to realize that this
mismanagement was precisely what the Baron wanted,
as it would allow Feyd to appear as a savior when he
took over.
While the subtleties of his position escaped him,
Rabban didn’t really care. The governance of Arrakis
allowed him opportunity for betrayal, revenge, and savagery, which is all he really wanted. Though he despised
his cleverer younger brother, and failed to understand
his uncle’s subtle stratagems, Rabban was utterly dedicated to the Harkonnen cause, knowing that it would
continue to give him endless opportunities to delight in
violence.

Homeworld: Kaitain
Other Holdings: Salusa Secundus (Prison Planet)
Banners and Arms: Colors: Gold & Scarlet
		
Crest: Lion
House Traits: Imperial, Wealthy
Primary Domains: Military (Workers) – Sardaukar Soldiers
Secondary Domains: Several diverse interests in partnership with other houses as
Imperial partner
The Imperial House and greatest of the Houses of the Landsraad, House Corrino has
ruled the Known Universe for thousands of years. Mired in intrigues both internal and
external, the Corrinos are ruthless and as addicted to power as they are to the spice.
House Corrino rose to power approximately ten thousand years ago, after a decisive
victory at the Battle of Corrin, from which the House takes its name. Their household
moved to their present throne-world, Kaitain, from their original homeworld of Salusa
Secundus, which they maintained as a prison planet.
The Imperial House’s grip on the Empire is absolute. Ruling through a combination of
subtle political acumen and the strategic application of brute force, their supremacy
has been unchallenged for an unthinkable era.
Corrino hegemony is maintained by the infamous Sardaukar, the premier fighting
force of the entire Empire. The merest rumor of their deployment being sufficient
to see belligerents seek terms of surrender, the Sardaukar are more than capable of
seeing that House Corrino keeps their throne.
It is believed that only if all the Houses of the Landsraad were to join in opposition to
House Corrino might they have a chance at defeating the Sardaukar. It is a notion the
Corrinos take seriously, working tirelessly to sow division among allies and enemies alike.

S h a dd a m I V
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Emperor of the Known Universe, Paranoid
Schemer
TALENTS
@ Cautious (Communicate): The Emperor may re-roll
a single d20 gained from spending Threat on a
Communicate skill test.

spend 2 Threat to allow an ally to use his Understand
skill as his own.

attempts a test to detect danger or hidden enemies,
he reduces the Difficulty by 2, to a minimum of 0. In
addition, once per scene, he can increase the cost for
an opponent to Keep the Initiative by +2.

@ Rigorous Control: The Emperor may use Discipline

instead of any skill in an extended test. He reduces the
requirement by 1 if the skill was already Discipline.

Shaddam Corrino IV, 81st Padishah Emperor of the
known universe, rules the greatest empire ever known to
humankind. The responsibilities and duties of wielding
this enormous power are as burdensome to him as they
were rewarding.
Father of five daughters by the Bene Gesserit sister
Anirul, Shaddam is as concerned with his legacy as he
was with ruling his Empire. Without a son, he requires a
male heir by marriage to inherit the Empire. As a result,
much of his time is spent in subtle intrigues with the
lesser Houses of the Landsraad in order to not only find
a suitable husband for his favored daughter, Irulan, but
to ensure no other Houses might threaten Corrino.
Like all Corrinos, Shaddam is prone to baroque plans
and a conspiratorial mindset. Shaddam feels threatened
by the growing popularity and martial strength of Duke
Leto of House Atreides. Privately, he is known to have
admired Duke Leto and once saw in him a suitable heir,
but his political analysis has convinced him that Leto is
more of a threat than any other.
It is these obsessions that have led Shaddam to court
the Baron Harkonnen, a man he finds loathsome, in
order to secure what he hopes will be a suitable heir to
his lineage and the legacy of his House. With the aid of
his maternal cousin and oldest friend, the Count Hasimir
Fenring, Shaddam has set in motion a plan to see the
Atreides destroyed by the Harkonnens without revealing
his direct involvement.

P ri n cess I r u l a n
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

The most beautiful and arguably the most perceptive of
Shaddam IV’s five daughters, Irulan was groomed from
a young age to be a marriageable pawn in her father’s
schemes. Raised in the Imperial crèche, she was subject
to all the intrigues of House Corrino from the moment
of her birth.
Highly intelligent, but also proud and haughty, Irulan
benefited from a superb education. Her interests in
literary and historical writing would prove to be of aid
to her over the course of her life, but she was also an
initiate of the Bene Gesserit. Her mother, a Bene Gesserit of Hidden Rank, saw that Irulan was tutored in the
Sisterhood’s ways, but Irulan would prove to be only a
moderately talented pupil and never rose above the
rank of adept. Even so, she remained more loyal to the
Sisterhood than her father in many cases.
Irulan’s relationship with her family was quietly strifefilled. Rivalries and intrigue abounded between the
royal sisters, and even their parents. Like all her siblings,
she was tutored in the means of detecting, and perhaps
administering, chaumas and chaumurky. Plots of many
kinds were a fundamental part of her life and left her
mistrustful and cynical.
While Irulan was well-suited to the role her father
intended for her, she also had an independent streak,
accompanied by a sharp mind. This, combined with
her immersion in conspiracy from a young age, left the
young princess able to outmaneuver even her father
from time to time.

Traits: Princess, Academic, Bene Gesserit
TALENTS
@ Intense Study: Once per scene, Irulan may use her
Understand skill on a single skill test instead of any
other skill, and she is counted as having a focus for
that test.

@ Masterful Innuendo: Irulan may conceal a hidden
message in a conversation by adding 1 to the
Difficulty of the Communicate test.

@ Prana-Bindu: Irulan may re-roll 1d20 on a Move or
Discipline test.

R e v ere n d M o t h er
G a i u s H ele n M o h i a m
DRIVE

The mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a
reality to experience.

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Bene Gesserit, Reverend Mother, Truthsayer
TALENTS
@ Advisor (Communicate): The Reverend Mother may re-roll a single d20
in the dice pool of an ally she assists.

Threat (1 Determination) on to automatically succeed at an Understand test.

@ Hyperawareness: Whenever the Reverend Mother spends Threat

(Momentum) to Obtain Information she may ask two questions for each
point spent. Further, the limits of what others would be able to notice do
not apply to her.

@ Passive Scrutiny: When the Reverend Mother enters a scene, she may

ask one question of the gamemaster as if she’d spent Threat to Obtain
Information.

Mother may re-roll 1d20 on a
Move or Discipline test.

may spend up to 3 points
of Threat to buy automatic
successes on a Communicate
test (1 success/point).

Truthsayer to the Emperor, the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam
epitomized what it meant to be a
Bene Gesserit. Aged but not frail,
Mohiam was a powerful woman in
every way conceivable.
A product and progenitor of the
Bene Gesserit breeding program,
Mohiam was steeped in the Sisterhood’s ways from the time of her
birth. As a young woman she had
been instrumental in furthering their
plans, birthing nine children by
fathers of the Sisterhood’s choosing
(including Baron Vladimir Harkonnen). She was a master of pranabindu and a full Reverend Mother,
having successfully transmuted the
Water of Life.
Notably, Mohiam possessed the full
Bene Gesserit truthsense. Her ability
to interpret another’s intentions and
drives was unparalleled, and paired
with her staggering intellect, she
rose quickly through the ranks of the
Sisterhood.
At the time of the Arrakis Affair,
Mohiam has been elevated to the
Imperial court where she serves as
the Emperor’s personal Truthsayer.
Though she is a dedicated servant
of Shaddam IV, she never wavers
from her commitments to the Bene
Gesserit. Her role as Imperial Truthsayer affords her and the Sisterhood
access to vital intelligence with
which they might advance their own
plans. Mohiam is utterly dedicated
to the Bene Gesserit, and willing to
do anything in their service.

C o u n t H a simir F e n ri n g
DRIVE
D U T Y:

@ Subtle Words: Fenring may create a new trait

SKILL

whenever he spends Threat for extra dice on a
Communicate test.

@ To Fight Someone Is to Know Them (Understand):
Fenring adds 2 points to Threat when he defeats an
enemy using the Understand skill. He may use them
to Obtain information or create a trait about that
enemy.

Supremely deadly, the courtier-assassin Count Hasimir
Fenring was the closest confidant of Emperor Shaddam
IV. The Count was a small, unassuming man, and easily
underestimated — a persona he carefully cultivated.
A distant cousin to the Emperor, Fenring was Shaddam’s
only real childhood friend. Despite his status as a
genetic eunuch — or perhaps because of it — the Bene
Gesserit maneuvered him into the confidence of the
Emperor. The two men grew to have a genuine friendship, and no other individual enjoyed such trust from
the Emperor. They participated in so many plots and
even assassinations together that Shaddam eventually
feared Fenring might not keep all their secrets. Upon
Shaddam’s ascension, Fenring was rewarded with a marriage to the Bene Gesserit adept Lady Margot, and a
position as Imperial Observer on Arrakis.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Assassination

Fenring served the Emperor as an advisor and an emissary in delicate political matters. It was widely believed
that Fenring also operates as an assassin in the Imperial House’s constant political intrigues, but little proof
exists. Even less proof can be found of the accusation
that Fenring was responsible for the previous emperor’s
death by poisoning.
The Count is known for a stammer and other verbal tics
which makes him frustrating in conversation. In fact,
Fenring’s mannerisms are all conscious choices. Those
who are aware of his full reputation noted the Count’s
disposition as troubling. Baron Vladimir Harkonnen once
described him as “a killer with the manners of a rabbit...
the most dangerous kind.”

Traits: Noble Courtier, Assassin, Psychopath
TALENTS
@ Advisor (Battle): Fenring may re-roll a single d20 in
the dice pool of an ally he assists.

Understand or Communicate test against Fenring,
he may immediately create a trait which reflects a
mistaken belief they have about him.

Fenring is often found at the Imperial court but has
been known to turn up in unexpected places, acting as
the Emperor’s eyes and ears, and occasionally delivering
messages on behalf of his Emperor and friend.

scene, he knows one hidden or concealed piece
of information about the situation or the player
characters as if he’d spent Threat to Obtain
Information.

@ Subtle Step: When Fenring attempts a Move test to
sneak through an area, or to move an asset subtly
during a conflict, the first extra d20 he purchases for
the test is free.

S til g a r
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Fremen Leader, Fierce and Dedicated
TALENTS
@ Cautious (Battle): Stilgar may re-roll a single d20 gained from spending
Threat on a Battle skill test.

@ Cool Under Pressure (Move): Stilgar may spend 3 Threat

(1 Determination) to automatically succeed at a Move skill test.

@ Deliberate Motion: When Stilgar attempts a Move test, he may spend
Threat to ignore some or all Move-related complications at 1 point per
complication ignored.

@ Rigorous Control: Stilgar may use Discipline instead of any skill in an extended
test. He reduces the requirement by 1 if the skill was already Discipline.

@ To Fight Someone Is to Know Them (Battle): Stilgar adds to 2 points to

Threat when he defeats an enemy using the Battle skill. He may use them
to Obtain Information or create a trait about that enemy.

The naib of Sietch Tabr, Stilgar was
among the most respected of the
Fremen of Arrakis. He was noted
for his wisdom and pragmatism as a
leader and led his people unflinchingly in times of great peril.
As a youth, Stilgar was nearly killed
by Harkonnen soldiers and saved
only thanks to the actions of Pardot
Kynes, then Imperial Planetologist.
It was Stilgar’s testimony to his tribe
that saved Kynes’ life as an intruder
in Fremen territory, and he soon
became a believer in the planetologist’s vision of a verdant Arrakis.
In the years that followed, Stilgar
would become the naib of Sietch
Tabr and a friend to Pardot Kynes’
child, Liet.
The life of the Fremen was harsh
and Stilgar could be uncompromising as a leader, but he was noted for
his sense of justice and love for his
people. Under his leadership Sietch
Tabr thrived even under the depredations of the Harkonnens. And
always, Stilgar sought to bind the
needs of his tribe with Liet’s vision of
the future. Stilgar was instrumental
in the initial stages of the slow process of conserving sufficient water to
truly change the face of Arrakis.
Like most Fremen Stilgar was a
deeply spiritual man, but he saw
no contradiction in the prophecies
of his people and Kynes’ scientific
plans. He was utterly dedicated to
the liberation of the Fremen by any
means necessary.

C h a n i K y n es
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Fremen, Warrior
TALENTS
@ Bold (Move): Chani may re-roll a d20 gained from spending Threat on a
Move skill test.

Chani was a lethal fighter as well,
having led retributive raids against
the Harkonnens on numerous occasions. Slight of build, almost elfin,
she possessed great skill with the
crysknife and was accomplished in
the ways of stealth and ambush.
Naib Stilgar saw greatness in her and
trusted her as a close companion.

@ Deliberate Motion: When Chani attempts a Move test, she may spend

Threat (Momentum) to ignore some or all Move-related complications at
1 point per complication ignored.

@ Subtle Step: When Chani attempts a Move test to sneak through an

area, or to move an asset subtly during a conflict, the first extra d20 she
purchases for the test is free.

@ The Reason I Fight (Faith): When Chani attempts a Battle test using
Faith, and the related drive statement aligns with the action being
attempted, she may re-roll 1d20.

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Fremen, Planetologist

@ Cautious (Understand): Kynes may re-roll a single d20 gained from
spending Threat on an Understand skill test.

@ Collaboration (Understand): Kynes may spend 2 Threat to allow an ally
to use her Understand skill as their own.

begins with 3 Threat, which only she may use, and which may only be
used on an action in direct service to the Fremen.

It was said that Liet Kynes served
two masters: the Emperor and ShaiHulud. In truth, Kynes was dedicated only to the Fremen and their
dreams of Arrakis as paradise.
Born to Pardot Kynes and his
Fremen wife, Liet inherited Pardot’s
position as Imperial Planetologist.
Liet was raised with Pardot’s visions
of ecological transformation, but as
a child of the Fremen Liet adopted
their ways. Where the senior Kynes
was concerned only with scientific
rigor, Liet was as devoted to the
Fremen as people and not simply
willing field assistants.
As an adult, Liet spent as little time
in the city of Arrakeen as possible,
preferring the company of the
Fremen and scientific pursuits to the
politics of the city. The planetologist’s work as an Imperial servant
was an inconvenient necessity, and
Liet made no friends among the
ruling Harkonnens in this work. Liet
took a Fremen spouse, and together
had a daughter, Chani.
It was this perceived impartiality
that led to the Emperor naming Liet
Judge of the Change and overseer
of the transition from Harkonnen
rule to Atreides. Kynes despised
the Harkonnens and expected little
better from the Atreides. Kynes’ only
concern was the wellbeing of the
Fremen and their generational work
to make Arrakis a world of plenty.

@ Do they have a hobby outside of their job? Maybe
it’s sculpting or weaving or some other art.
Minor non-player characters do not need as much
detail as major or notable non-player characters, but
can require a bit of a personal touch, so players can feel
invested. They usually act as a threat to the player characters but act more as obstacles than a named villain.
Though minor non-player characters are unnamed, they
can still slip in a bit of context for the player characters.
Maybe the player characters overhear two soldiers chatting, before they sneak into an enemy base. Or maybe
it’s a smuggler who is nervously reciting back a distrans
to themself on what the next shipment will be. Here are
some questions you can ask yourself when you prepare
for an encounter like this with the player characters:

relying on two-dimensional tropes. Focus on a character’s motivations and their wants and needs. A Fremen
warrior character might make sacrifices for their sietch,
but they are more than just a heartless fighter. Breathe
life into that character by touching on a hobby they
might have or a familiar quirk that can feel relatable to
the players. Keep in mind that even a warrior has other
things going on in their lives that can make them feel
emotional. Show those vulnerable sides!

Be sure to include characters that look different from one
another, who have different cultures and religious backgrounds, like how we function in the real world. Think
about a time you went to a friend’s house. Maybe they
asked you to take your shoes off, or maybe they were a
shoes-on type of household. Doing what your friend asked
you to do is not only a sign of respect, but a sign of caring.
The same goes for the non-player characters the players
might encounter — someone from Caladan would consider spitting as a sign of rudeness, whereas someone from
Arrakis might consider it as a sign of great honor.
Though it is good to integrate these differences, try
to avoid stereotypes. For example, a character with a
disability is not solely defined by that disability, because
they have several other facets that make up their personality and background. Maybe they enjoy gossiping,
with an abundant knowledge of all the rumors in their
area, or maybe they are a stealthy escape artist, able to
sneak past any guards in the way.
Additionally, a way to avoid stereotyping is to inject this
diversity in every level of society, not just one. A Mentat
character who is a wealthy woman working for a House
would not be the same as a smuggler character who is
a woman distributing illegal goods at the marketplace.
Though some of their experiences as women might
parallel one another, they are not entirely the same. This
is one of the occasions where many possibilities exist
and limiting a character to just one trope can leave the
players feeling like they might have missed out on the
larger picture.
Some other things that are good to keep in mind are:

@ Need some help trying to come up with names?
Look for a name generator and edit the names that
come up as you need to.
Chances are you will be playing this game with people who
are not exactly like you. Be mindful of differences at the
table and think about how you can support the players in
creating an engaging story. Though you have the power to
direct the players through an outline that you have planned,
the story should feel like it belongs to everyone. Encourage
the use of safety tools (see Chapter 8: Gamemastering)
and make sure that everyone feels comfortable with stopping in the middle of the scene if they need to rewind and
redo something that does not fit with what they want from
the game. If players do not feel comfortable engaging in a
topic, acknowledge it, change the topic, and move on.

D o n ' t L et T h em T a k e
O v er t h e A dv e n t u re
Even though you will be taking the time to fill in several
details about the non-player characters, these details are
more for you than they are for the player, so that you can
process them and really step into the character’s shoes.
Condense what you know about the non-player characters into manageable chunks so that the players get to
see facets of their personalities shine through. Instead of
overloading the players with what the character had for
breakfast, give them snippets of details that the players
would find important or engaging to mesh with the story.
What you show the players will make it easier for them to
interact with the character, encouraging players to go on
missions or dig deeper for more information.
Try to keep the focus on the player characters. The nonplayer characters should probably not hold the spotlight
longer than the player characters. Instead, non-player
characters should be guiding the player characters and
attempting to lead them down exciting paths of the
story. When you’re interacting with player characters,
here are some ways that a non-player character can support a player character’s story and lead them to interesting plot points that you may have already set up:

@ Introduce player characters to problems that only
they have the solution for. You might have outcomes
pre-planned for when players decide to go one way
versus another. Just remember there is no right or
wrong answer. Instead, focus on creating a fun story
that can make room for fun and strange solutions.

@ Let the presence of a non-player character generate questions for you to ask the player characters.
These questions could be triggered by the character
attempting to make a connection with the player characters. For example, you tell one of the player characters that a character they have just met, Ani, reminds
them of their mother. Questions could include: “What
is a memory you have of your mother?” “How does
Ani remind you of your mother?” “How does that
color your perception of Ani?” Questions not only
allow players to create their own context, they can also
drive tension between characters.

Even though you, as the GM, might have control over
the story framework, there will be times when players
would rather go in one direction instead of another.
Playing with a villain is no different, especially when you
have an idea of a scary antagonist carved out in your
mind, only to find that the players would rather have a
cartoonish supervillain. Even after agreeing on the tone
of the game beforehand, you might have an idea of
what the villain would do to place the player characters
in danger or threaten the people around them. Sometimes this could cross over to very real situations and
behavior that can hurt the players, damage the story,
and essentially break the game.
Listen to the players and ask them questions, before
jumping into something that could potentially harm
them, especially when it comes to topics such as
violence. If you are not sure where to start, before the
game begins ask the players a few questions:

@ “Is there anything you would like to see, but you
do not want to go into detail? For example, action
movie violence would be okay in the game, but
let’s not go into every detail about every punch the
villain throws, because then we would be playing for
another three hours.”

plot points. In other words, be sure to pre-negotiate
before the villain plans on doing something extremely
catastrophic to any of the characters, non-player characters included. If this is something that could be a
huge reveal leading up to a cliffhanger, you can always
re-write the scene or adjust it according to what you
and the players want. Remember that the story that you
are creating is a story that is being created together.
You might be directing the scenes, but the players are
lead actors, writers, and producers, so make sure they
have some agency as well, especially in scenes with the
villain. Some questions that you might ask that grant the
players agency in telling the story are:

@ “How does your character know that the villain is
close to wreaking devastation across the world? To
what lengths will your character go to make sure they
do not carry out their plans?”
Make sure that you use safety tools (outlined in
Chapter 8: Gamemastering), if things get too intense
at the table and course correct as needed. Set the
expectation that they will be available, so that everyone
is comfortable using them. These safety tools are not for
players to police one another’s behavior, but they are
there for everyone to make room for a more engaging
story. Constraints provide room for more creativity,
allowing you and the players to come up with more
interesting solutions and plots.
Being mindful of everyone in the room is hard work,
but it is a skill that you can develop and hone over
time. Just remember that if you do make a mistake, be
gentle with yourself. Thank the player that pointed it out
rewind, and re-do the scene. The same goes for other
players at the table. If you note something that someone else did that makes you feel uncomfortable, it’s
okay to let them know. No one is perfect, not even the
writers of this book!

@ How does the character react to conflict? If they’re
a barkeep, maybe they’ve seen one too many fights
happen at the tavern, so instead of reacting with
shock, they might be annoyed or apathetic when
they see a fight break out.

Using the market trader as an example, just because
they spend most of their days selling their wares, this
does not mean that they don’t see a lot of action happening in the marketplace or have insight toward the
politics that are happening on the planet that they live
on. Maybe they are familiar with all the gossip that
spreads between traders. This could be things that
they have heard from their customers, whether they are
traveling as tourists or are locals with political power.
Or maybe their distribution networks have been cut
because of a catastrophic event and they have opinions
on how the current governing body is dealing with that
event.
They have probably seen many different people go
through the marketplace, so they are used to constant
interaction, maintaining a positive façade so customers
will make a purchase. If you have ever worked at a retail
shop, you probably know how draining that can be! If
and when a fight breaks out, they might be annoyed.
Their merchandise could be ruined at any moment, like
many times in the past! Maybe that is when the player
characters catch glimpses of the non-player character showing their true self, when they are placed in a
moment of high stress. They are no longer that efficient
salesperson that the player characters saw earlier, but
a tired parent who is trying to make ends meet in an
oppressive society. Introducing moments like these
create empathy for the non-player characters, making
them feel more real, while also giving you the opportunity to reveal secrets and hints about the world that the
characters are playing in.

If you are planning to spend a bit more time on expanding
on these supporting characters, after reading through their
traits, drives, skills, focuses, talents, and assets, consider
the supporting characters’ internalized thoughts for each
of these. For example, if we were to look at a Sardaukar
who has the Military Officer trait, ask whether they enjoy
command over others. Do they enjoy having that authority or would they prefer doing something else? One way
of doing this is by adding statements to each point that
would give you a better understanding of the archetype’s
thoughts and feelings. Ask yourself questions such as:

@ Has this archetype ever felt the sting of failure? If so,
how did they react?

@ Did they always want to be in this job or did they
have dreams of doing something else?
Continuing with our Sardaukar Military Officer example,
under Traits, you could have: “I’m not sure if I’m fit for
this job. I know others see me as competent, but I’m not
sure of myself sometimes.” This could give you some
insight into how the archetype feels about themselves in
their position and how they could choose to relay plot
information to the players when you roleplay as them.
For drives, write down something that summarizes
the other statements related to their drives. Maybe it’s
something like “I have a duty to my people, but I don’t
believe the House rulers have our best interests at heart.”
Perhaps there was a time when the archetype noticed
something wrong with the House rulers and have been
suspicious ever since. That could be shown through how
willing they are to divulge secret information to the player
characters. Maybe they have a stronger sense of community that goes beyond their job.
Continuing with skills, how do they feel about their set
of skills? Do they feel like they are an expert, or do they
downplay what they know? Find the one that they are
strongest at and write a brief statement on how the archetype uses this skill. For example, if they play the baliset, a
statement could be: “I’m well-trained in the instrument,
but I only play around my closest friends.” If they become
closer to the player characters, they might surprise them
with a song, showing their affection for their new friends.
What is the archetype’s talent? Perhaps it’s Improvised
Weapon, which means at some point, they must have
used this talent in the past. When they did, what did it
look like? How were they able to defend themselves with
a makeshift weapon? Through answering these questions, you can come up with a short bit of background
through your statement that might sound something like:
“The last time I had to fight a smuggler, I used the closest
thing I could find — a vase from the poor market trader’s
stall! I paid them back for the damages, of course.”

And finally, write a brief sentence or two for each of their
assets and how the archetype feels about them. Some
questions you might ask yourself about human assets are:

@ How does the archetype treat the asset? Do they
have inside jokes or petty slights that the player
characters might notice?

@ Why would this asset be important for the archetype
and the player characters? Do they sell water to
the archetype? Maybe they have an emotional
attachment?
Again, these exercises of writing down brief statements
are optional, but it should help you process the characters’ personalities and motivations, so that you can
better portray them in the game. And of course, you are
welcome to adjust these archetypes if you would rather
see them take on new skills or talents. Maybe you would
like the Bene Gesserit Agent to understand geology
instead of psychiatry, and that is absolutely okay if you
think that fits better with your game.
When introducing these archetypes, think about how they
would benefit the player characters. Maybe they have an
adventure for the player characters, or maybe they were
assigned to help them, or maybe they are just interested
in tagging along somehow. Whatever the motivation is,
keep the players engaged to find out more, while still
maintaining a supporting role. Some ways that an archetype can help connect the dots for players are:

@ Taking the player characters to meet with one of
their assets so that they can find out more about the
adventure and advance in the task at hand.

@ Letting the archetype set up obstacles, leaving it up
to the player characters use their skills to overcome
the problem.

A rr a k ee n N ati v e
DRIVE
D U T Y:

SKILL

Hard work and talent lead
to advancement.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Commoner
TALENTS
@ Cool Under Pressure (Discipline): May spend
Determination to automatically succeed at a
Discipline skill test.
Assets: Tools of Trade, Workshop
The native population of Arrakeen—its ‘pyons’ as
designated within the Faufreluches—make their livings
in a variety of ways not intimately connected to Noble
Houses or organized crime. Many are artisans, skilled
in a particular trade, and nobles sometimes call on
them to carry out specialized work beyond the ability
of their servants. Some hope to impress and become
permanent staff. Others gather information, hoping to
sell it to the highest bidder.

A ss a ssi n
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Assassination,
Sneak Attacks

@ Ratna is a sharpshooter and specializes in long-distance
assassinations for her House. She is most known for her
ability to find and neutralize other assassins.

Traits: Assassin, Advisor to a Great House
TALENTS
@ Master-at-Arms: At the start of a duel, skirmish, or
battle, they may spend 1 point of Threat to increase
a martial asset they have by +1 Quality for that
conflict.
Assets: Dartgun, Hunter-seeker, Poison

works as a freelancer and will kill anyone for enough
solaris. His knife skills have toppled more than one
member of the Landsraad.

B e n e G esserit A g e n t
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

Anyone educated by the Bene Gesserit is a dangerous
adversary, whether they’re in rags or Imperial finery.
Their training also gives them the charisma and confidence to manipulate an individual to their will or even
influence a crowd.
Cloaked in mystery and appearing in every corner of
the Imperium, Bene Gesserit agents gather information and further the schemes of the Order — all while
the Sisterhood makes efforts to appear neutral in all
political matters. These infiltrators are usually Sisters
or acolytes, whose skills in heightened observation,
prana-bindu conditioning, and mastery of the Voice
makes them a boon to any venture.
Viewed by some as witches, the Sisterhood embraces
this reputation. They use their supernatural mystique
to strike fear in the hearts of men. But whether they
are loved or hated, they have gained much by unearthing the secrets of others while obfuscating their true
agenda and the extent of their true powers, keeping
themselves shrouded in mystery.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

Composure, Espionage

MOVE:

Traits: Bene Gesserit
TALENTS
@ Prana-Bindu Conditioning: May re-roll 1d20 on a
Move or Discipline test.

@ Hyperawareness: Whenever she spends Threat to

Assets: Concealable Dagger, Dot Coder, Minimic Film (blank)

B e n e G esserit R e v ere n d M o t h er
DRIVE

SKILL

A Reverend Mother of the Bene Gesserit Sisterhood has
survived the Agony, a ritual wherein the Sister ingests a
fatal toxin (often the Water of Life) and alters her own
body chemistry to neutralize its toxicity. The ordeal
unlocks the Reverend Mother’s access to the Other
Memory of their ancestral bloodline, which may then be
passed along genetically by another Reverent Mother.
Other Memory provides them with the collective personalities and memories of previous Reverend Mothers,
enhancing their considerable experience and wisdom.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

@ Axenus Arlana Avina is a Truthsayer offering her

Faction Lore
(Bene Gesserit)

Traits: Bene Gesserit, Reverend Mother
TALENTS
@ Hyperawareness: Whenever she spends Threat to
Obtain Information, she may know two pieces of
information for each point spent. Further, the limits of
what others would be able to notice does not apply.

@ Prana-Bindu Conditioning: She may re-roll 1d20 on
a Move or Discipline test.

@ Voice: She may spend up to 3 points of Threat (1
Determination) to buy automatic successes on a
Communicate test (1 success/point).

Assets: Dangerous Secret, Group of Bene Gesserit Acolytes, Robes of a Reverend Mother

C rimi n a l
DRIVE
D U T Y:

SKILL

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

FOCUSES

Dirty Fighting,
Evasive Action

Traits: Commoner, Lawless
TALENTS
@ Make Haste: They may choose to suffer one
additional complication in a Move test to gain one
automatic success. During any conflict, they may
spend 1 Threat to take the first action, regardless of
who would otherwise act first.
Assets: Krimskel Fiber Rope, Maula Pistol, Small Gang
Wherever laws exist someone will attempt to profit by
breaking them. Arrakis is no exception. Law enforcement away from the residencies of the noble Houses is
minimal and pickpocketing, protection rackets, housebreaking, kidnapping, and even arson are rife.

C o u rtier
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

Espionage

MOVE:

Traits: Courtier, Aristocrat
TALENTS
@ Mask of Power: Once per scene they may create
a temporary intrigue or espionage asset (at no
cost) that will allow them to initiate an intrigue or
espionage conflict. If they fail, the bluff is exposed,
and they gain a complication.
Assets: Bodkin, Groundcar, Manor House
The Houses on Arrakis, like those throughout the Imperium, are always vying for power. So, too, are the courtiers. Many, but not all, are nobles. Heirs to Houses Minor
and shipping fortunes are the types drawn to this world
of intrigue. All have a stake in melange.
One can find courtiers at generous banquets where
rumors fly faster than the sumptuous dishes can arrive at
the table. As they sip rich wines with heady aromas and
attend rowdy sporting competitions held inside out of
the burning sun, the courtiers work to claw their way up

E n v oy
DRIVE

As it is quicker to send a messenger on a Guild ship
than to try sending a signal between distant stars,
envoys fulfill an essential function. They sometimes
commit their messages to memory or are trusted to
carry them securely on their journey. They have a great
deal of flexibility in how to achieve the required outcome. Failure, for an envoy, is frequently fatal.

and has just returned from a failed mission. They
desperately need to cover up their failure.

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

A rival Espionage House sends an envoy. They propose
your Houses join them in opposition to a powerful
Military House with which your House is currently allied.
Is this a genuine offer or will they back off after you have
broken off the friendship and made a powerful enemy?

Traits: Diplomat, Traveler
TALENTS
@ Binding Promise: Spend 1, 2, or 3 points of Threat
to make an agreement binding. To break it an
opponent must spend twice this in Momentum.
Assets: Cypher Key, Elegant Clothing, Local Agents of
their House

F a ce D a n cer
DRIVE

@ Hakaar is most skilled at infiltrating seedy places and
currently works as an entertainer in an exotic bar.
Their employment provides a deep vein of blackmail
material.

@ Torbyn likes to work with machines and is a skilled

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Imposter
TALENTS
@ Prana-Bindu: May re-roll 1d20 on a Move or
Discipline test.

Assets: Face Dancers steal or copy the assets of the
person they are mimicking, and frequently kill them to
avoid exposure.

A Truthsayer told a close friend that the person they are
about to marry is a Face Dancer. The friend wants to find
out what happened to the ‘original partner’ the Face
Dancer was imitating. Are they alive somewhere, or did
the Face Dancer kill them? The Face Dancer insists they
are the original partner and is genuinely upset by any
accusations thrown at them.

F reme n E lder
DRIVE

SKILL

Deep in the desert, a Fremen elder lies injured on the
sand. She makes it clear she does not desire rescue. She
asks only for the return of her water to her sietch. There
is a rumbling in the distance, a sandworm is coming…

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Fremen
TALENTS
@ Binding Promise: May spend 1, 2, or 3 points of
Threat to make an agreement binding. To break it an
opponent must spend twice this in Momentum.

@ Cautious (Discipline): They may re-roll a single d20
gained from spending Threat.

@ Resilience (Battle): They may Resist Defeat twice in a
scene when in a conflict using the Battle skill.

Assets: Crysknife, Maker Hooks, Small Band of Fremen
Warriors, Stillsuit
Rarely seen in the city, these mysterious elders prefer
to stick to the deep desert. Long the victims of Harkonnen persecution, they are mistrustful of off-worlders and
despise the pyons from Arrakeen. They are mines of
information about the desert, its ways, and melange.

F reme n W a rri o r
DRIVE
D U T Y:

SKILL
B AT T L E :

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Just as the harsh conditions on Salusa Secundus
produce the dreaded Sardaukar, the inhospitable
landscape of Arrakis hones the Fremen into a terrifying force. Even the young know how to wield a knife
and survive the deep desert. But those who claim the
mantle of Fremen warrior are truly formidable, lethal
on their own and devastating in large numbers.
With blue-within-blue eyes, a Fremen soldier wears
a stillsuit and is equipped with a distinctive crysknife
— a specialized dagger made from the tooth of a
sandworm. They prefer the desert to the city and use
the terrain to their advantage. This includes mounting
sandworms to ride across the dunes. They’re known to
ambush their opponents with stealth and speed before
vanishing without a trace.

Traits: Fremen
TALENTS
@ Decisive Action: After successfully removing an
enemy asset with Battle, remove a second enemy
asset for 2 Threat.

@ Nimble: When attempting a Move test over difficult

terrain they may reduce the Difficulty of the test by 2.
If this reduces the Difficulty to 0, they may move over
or around that obstacle freely.

@ Resilience (Battle): They may Resist Defeat twice in a
scene when in a conflict using the Battle skill.

Assets: Crysknife, Fremkit, Stillsuit

“Who can turn away the Angel of Death? What
Shai-Hulud has decreed must be.” The Fedaykin, the
Fremen death commandos, speak these words as they
prepare for battle.

@ Estes is a veteran of many battles, all of which are

G u ild A g e n t
DRIVE

SKILL

Due to their inability to survive outside their tailored
environment tanks, a Guild Navigator is a rare sight.
The Guild does business through its agents who are
easy to find anywhere a person might go to arrange
interplanetary transport — for themselves, those they
serve, or goods. Guild Agents are skilled at fitting in
with their environment in manner and appearance.
They pride themselves on being unremarkable and
often hide their totally blue eyes.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Guild Agent, Diplomat
TALENTS

Assets: Guild Contacts, Shield Belt, Supply Contracts

H e a ler
DRIVE

SKILL

A harsh truth is superior to
a kind lie.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Healer
TALENTS

@ Intense Study: Once per scene, they may may use their

Understand skill on a single skill test instead of any other
skill and are counted as having a focus for that test.

Assets: Glowglobe, Medical Records, Medkit
In a universe wrought with battles, duels, and various
skirmishes in-between, healers are in high demand. Every
noble House, Minor or Major, has at least one medical
advisor who tends to the health of the family. Healers
also find employment as medical technicians, surgeons,
researchers, and advisors to planetary governors. From
the combat medic assigned to the infantry to the country
doctor who uses herbs to mend the sick, healers are
pervasive throughout the Known Universe.
While many medical schools exist, none carry the prestige of the Suk School of Medicine. Identified by the
diamond tattoo on their forehead, Suk graduates are the

most skilled healers in the Landsraad. Imperial conditioning ensures these doctors’ loyalty and incorruptibility,
making them incapable of taking another life, even
under extreme duress. Suk doctors are also the most
expensive, with a percentage of their fees tithed to the
Suk School of Medicine on Kaitain.

H o u se S o ldier / G ua rd
DRIVE
D U T Y:
FA I T H :

SKILL

One of the House military has started to behave oddly.
It emerges that her husband has gone missing, kidnapped by a rival House that is trying to subvert the
loyal soldier by threatening those she loves.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Military
TALENTS
@ Unquestionable Loyalty: At the start of each
adventure they are utilized in, they begin with 3
Threat (1 Determination) which only they may use,
and which may only be used on an action which is in
direct service to their House.
Assets: Conscripts, Lasgun, Security Clearance,
Shield Belt
Every House needs soldiers and guards, brave men
and women who ensure no intruders invade the residency and who stand in the front line of battle in times
of war. Faithful and loyal though they are, they remain
human and have weaknesses a wily enemy can exploit.

M e n t at
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Mentat, Political Advisor
TALENTS
@ Mentat Discipline: Add two automatic successes on
all Understand tests they attempt when remembering
facts or data.
Assets: Access to Employer Data, Informant Network,
Sapho Juice
Mentats undergo rigorous conditioning, turning themselves
into human computers who are both moral and truthful.
Bound by ethical constraints, Mentats are inherently honest,
a conviction prized by the majority of the Landsraad. With
their intense mental conditioning and exceptional cognitive ability, Mentats are employed by almost all influential
entities within the Imperium, like Houses and high-volume
traders. They are trusted as military strategists, administrators, political advisors, and tutors for young nobles. Many
Mentats enhance their mental abilities by drinking Sapho
juice, a liquid that stains their lips red.

M erc h a n t
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

The swish of their exquisite clothing whispers of wealth.
Expensive perfumes waft in their wake. They glide from
place to place in their groundcars, avoiding the hot
sun of Arrakis. With a tight stranglehold on legitimate
trade, Arrakis’ merchants handle most of the goods that
enter the cities. From luxury imports to precious water,
these cunning individuals work hard and will do almost
anything, to make solaris on every transaction.
Many merchants, especially those with the fewest morals,
are wealthy individuals with unsavory connections. Some
deal with CHOAM, others with smugglers. Most act as
brokers, buying and selling in bulk, and are rarely the
ones braving the scorching sun to peddle their goods to
the population. They leave that to the water sellers and
small shop proprietors.
One area that the merchants can’t seem to touch are
the Fremen-manufactured wares, like their high quality stillsuits. That doesn’t mean the merchants don’t try,
however.

Traits: Broker, Wealthy
TALENTS
@ Driven: After they spend Threat to gain a point
of Determination, roll 1d20. If the roll is equal to
or under their Discipline rating (by itself), they
immediately regain that spent Threat.
Assets: Information Network, Ornithopter, Warehouse,

@ Druce focuses their merchant empire on weapons
and vehicles. They outfit many of the guards and
soldiers of Arrakis’ Houses Minor. Their passion is
collecting fine wines.

Noble (Young Heir)
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

reclamation holdings on Arrakis. While they don’t
love the drudgery of their family’s business, they feel
a duty to follow in their House’s footsteps.

Traits: Noble, House Minor
TALENTS
@ Bold (Communicate): May re-roll a d20 gained from
spending Threat on a Communicate skill test.
Assets: Influence, Kindjal, Ornithopter

Despite their luxurious homes, unlimited access to water,
and aristocratic experiences, the young nobles of the
Imperium lead uncertain lives. From an early age they
learn to identify a hunter-seeker and other methods of
slaughter. Poison snoopers are common at the dinner
table. The knowledge that a War of Assassination could
happen at any moment makes the wisest of them wary
and mistrustful.

talent for codebreaking and counter-espionage. And
she has plans to make her House into a major power
within the Landsraad.

Noble (Veteran)
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

FOCUSES

Not every young heir manages to survive the deadly
games of politics. Those who do are deadly opponents,
with the power of a noble House at their command.
Many Houses both Major and Minor have representation on Arrakis, but an experienced noble needs some
compelling reason to visit. Few come out of curiosity,
more on business too secret to entrust to an envoy. Veteran nobles rarely travel alone; it would be dangerous
for a prominent member of a noble House to do so.

A veteran noble of an allied House seeks the assistance of the Atreides. They claim they have been the
intended victim of chaumas, administered at a banquet
in Carthag, and that they only escaped death because
their bodyguard tasted the food before them. They
want revenge. A Truthsayer reveals he is lying. Is he
trying to escalate the rivalry between Harkonnen and
Atreides?

Traits: Noble
TALENTS
@ Putting Theory into Practice: Once per scene, when
they Obtain Information, they may create a trait for
free, representing an advantage they’ve identified
with the information they received.
Assets: Bodyguards, Kindjal Engraved with House Crest,
Shield Belt

S a r dau k a r ( E l i t e S o l d i e r )
DRIVE

SKILL

@ Valen is a skilled warrior

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Sardaukar, Soldier
TALENTS
@ Bolster: Spend 2 Threat to allow an ally to re-roll
their dice pool. The ally may use the Sardaukar’s
Discipline instead of their skill as well.

@ Decisive Action: After successfully removing an

enemy asset with Battle, they may remove a second
enemy asset for 2 Threat.

battle, the Sardaukar may spend 1 point of Threat to
increase a martial asset they have by +1 Quality for
that conflict.

Assets: Sardaukar are equipped as according to their
assignment, but generally carry a variety of concealed
weapons including Lasgun, Shigawire Garrote, Shield,
Kindjal, Flip-Dart, and more.

S cie n tist
DRIVE

SKILL

Scientists do not often participate in political games. However, they can become pawns. Depending on their expertise, kidnapping or assassination is a very real possibility.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Researcher
TALENTS
@ Intense Study: Once per scene, they may use their
Understand skill on a single skill test instead of any
other skill, and they are counted as having a focus for
that test.
Assets: Shigawire Reels, Laboratory, Data About Arrakis
One can find scientists all over the Imperium. Some
handle caustic chemicals under ventilation hoods, while
others are smeared in grease from tinkering on the latest
carryall design. From designing ships that travel the stars
to concocting poisons from local flora, these brilliant
researchers change the way the Imperium functions.

S erva n t
DRIVE

Servants handle the day-to-day operations of a noble
House, functioning as assistants, couriers, cooks,
gardeners, guards, maids, mechanics, secretaries, and
tutors. Servants tend to be close-knit within a given
House with a shared responsibility for the success of
the nobles. Many servants on Arrakis also have outside
loyalties. Some are powerful Fremen and are influential within their communities and their sietches. Others
have connections to spies or smugglers or assassins.

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Servant
TALENTS
@ Nimble: When attempting a Move test over difficult
terrain they may reduce the Difficulty of the test by 2.
If this reduces the Difficulty to 0, they may move over
or around that obstacle freely.
Assets: Illicit Recordings, Old Friendship, Trusted
Access
With quiet footsteps, House servants go about their
business, often unnoticed by those they serve. Though
the nobles may pay them little mind, domestic attendants are observant, perceptive, and more powerful
than the Houses could imagine. They see and hear
scandals that could destroy reputations within the
Landsraad. They know secrets that could turn to
blackmail. In subtle ways and with understated suggestions, they can manipulate their employers into taking
actions without their nobles ever being the wiser.

S m u g g ler
DRIVE

SKILL
B AT T L E :

@ Terris Ghurani coordinates the movements and sales
for one of the largest smuggling rings on Arrakis.
They tend to stay in a ship in near orbit, watching
for any movements from their foes and shifting their
plans accordingly.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

But living outside the law on a planet as unforgiving as Arrakis isn’t for the faint of heart. There is the
constant risk of discovery and death at the hands of
the Landsraad, CHOAM, and the sands. These rebels
make it work by keeping their wits about them and
possessing a fierce determination to survive. Though
they may seem like a ragtag bunch, Arrakis’ smugglers
are clever, motivated, and driven.

Drive, Stealth

Traits: Smuggler
TALENTS
@ Constantly Watching: Whenever they attempt a test
to detect danger or hidden enemies, they reduce the
Difficulty by 2, to a minimum of 0. In addition, once
per scene, they can increase the cost for another to
Keep the Initiative by +2.
Assets: Hidden Base, Maula Pistol, Ornithopter

S p y / I n f iltr at o r
DRIVE

SKILL

@ Haley, posing as a skilled
The truth is what you
make it.

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Imposter, Spy
TALENTS
Ransack: When they attempt an Understand test to
search an area, they can spend 2 Threat to reduce the
Difficulty of the test by 1, and to halve the amount of
time the test takes.
Assets: Cibus Hood, Lockpicks, Memocorder

A person who can find information about a rival is
invaluable in House or Imperial politics. One who can
penetrate to the very heart of an enemy’s household is
worth their weight in spice. On Arrakis a successful spy
or infiltrator gains rich rewards. Failure or detection is,
however, often fatal. Or worse.

An infiltrator
placed in a
rival House
sends
a trusted
messenger
to inform the
player characters they fear
their cover has
been blown.
They request
extraction,
but the messenger says
the infiltrator
has been ‘turned’ by
the player characters’
rivals and the rescue
operation is really a trap.

T ec h n ici a n
DRIVE

SKILL

My skills will
keep us running.

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

FOCUSES

legally or illegally, whenever they have the chance.
Groundcars? Ornithopters? If it moves, Alik will make
it go fast.

Traits: Technician
TALENTS
@ Rigorous Control: They can use Discipline instead
of any skill in an extended test, and and reduce the
requirement by 1 if the skill was already Discipline.
Assets: Technical Access, Tools, Vision Enhancement
Goggles

T leil a x u M a ster
DRIVE
D U T Y:
FA I T H :

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Genetics, Faction Lore
(Tleilaxu)

Traits: Tleilaxu, Biologist
TALENTS
@ Masterful Innuendo: They can conceal a hidden
message in a conversation by adding 1 to the
Difficulty of the Communicate test.
Assets: Face Dancer, Illicit Recordings, Ixian Damper
All Tleilaxu look odd. Most have sharpened teeth
(whether this is innate or acquired is not known). Some
are abnormally short; others have greyish complexions.
Whatever the differences, their appearance makes
humans from other planets feel uncomfortable, as if
the nature of the Bene Tleilax’s services — artificially
grown limbs and organs, ghola returned from the
dead, and, of course, the Face Dancers — were not
disconcerting enough. Tleilaxu masters use this discomfort to their advantage.

W ater S eller
DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DISCIPLINE:

MOVE:

Traits: Water Seller, Merchant
TALENTS
@ Subtle Words: They can create a new trait whenever
they spend Threat for extra dice on a Communicate
test.
Assets: Small Group of Thugs, Water, Wealth

M ilit a ry H o u se
This House is renowned for its military might. It commands well-trained and well-armed soldiers, all led by
battle-hardened generals. The Military House might
have built such a force to feel safe, or so they might hire
themselves out as mercenaries.
The noble family ruling the House revolves around
strict military protocol. Heirs are trained extensively in
various forms of combat, and those who hope to lead
the House are driven to excel. This might make the
members of the House quite bullish, but they respect
strength and may also follow a code of honor.
As a Great House: The Great Military House is a master
of all things military. House Corrino, ignoring its Imperial benefits, is a Military House whose famed Sardaukar
soldiers strike fear into the hearts of even the most
powerful Great Houses. Other Great Houses of military
might exist in the Imperium, but are careful to show
their undying allegiance to the Golden Lion Throne, lest
the Emperor turns their eye upon them.
As a Major House: The Major Military House is a tiger
you do not want to wake. However, for all its fighting
power it is still reliant on the Guild to move its troops
around the universe. An invasion is an expensive operation. But this may lead to a deadly cycle of the House
needing to make more conquests to pay an ever-growing debt to the Guild.
As a Minor House: The Minor Military House is more of a
specialist. It cannot produce the best army and weapons
and strategy, etc., so it works to be the best at one particular aspect. This makes it a useful friend, as it might have
just the right specialty to fill a gap in an ally’s fighting force
without being so powerful that a betrayal cripples them.
Resources: The resources and holdings of a Military
House are all rated in their use on the battlefield. If
something cannot have a weapon added to it, be it
a person or a vehicle, it is of little use to the Military
House. However, these Houses may need a good source
of metal ore so they can construct their weapons and
war machines.
Ruler: If the ruler of this House is getting old, their fighting days may be behind them but they are still an expert
tactician. If they are young, they may still be spoiling for
a fight, possibly against the advice of their advisors. But
it is equally possible the ruler may have tired of war and
fighting and now tries to avoid it. This may lead to more
militant factions in the House looking to replace them.
As an Ally: The uses of a Military House as an ally are quite
obvious. Their force of arms might give the player characters’ House the ‘teeth’ they lack. However, the player
characters had best be careful they don’t rely too much on
the Military House. Those same troops might easily turn
and take control of any installations they are guarding.

As an Enemy: A Military House is usually easy to see
coming. If their strength is in force of arms, they usually
meet any potential conflict head on with firepower. This
makes them a little easier to politically flank. For instance,
a large Guild bribe would stop them from moving their
forces off planet. Unfortunately, outthinking such a House
may make them all the more dedicated to proving their
superiority. It is unlikely that any conflict can be considered
resolved by them unless it has been settled on a battlefield.
Domains: The following list represents likely domains
of this style of House at each level; feel free to mix and
match to fit your story. Military Houses focus on producing military power in various forms and supporting that
power, so expect secondary domains to support the
primary: food supplies or small arms for their soldiers, or
tactics and shields for officers, etc.

@ In the player characters’ darkest hour, when their
House might be overrun by a rival House, this
Military House offers its aid and services. They might
see the characters as noble and just and therefore
undeserving of destruction. Maybe they are also an
enemy of this House and see this as a chance for them
to strike a blow against a shared rival. Or perhaps
they are playing a long game where the attack on the
player characters’ House was nothing but an attempt
to place them in the debt of this Military House.

@ Just or unjust, this House feels that the player
characters’ House has wronged them in some way.
They have called one or more members out to face
them on the field of honor, in either an honor battle
or a duel where one or more members settle the
dispute via ritualized armed conflict.
Is this a common pattern of this House, using these
methods of bullying to stomp or weaken other
Houses? Or do they have a real case against the
player characters’ House? They have refused all
other forms of compensation and the Landsraad sees
this as an equitable form of dispute resolution, less
wasteful than kanly for both sides. Champions are
allowed, so if the characters are not well-trained in
the art of war, perhaps one of their militant allies can
stand in for them, in exchange for a favor.

E spi o n a g e H o u se
This House strikes at their enemies from the shadows or
lures other Houses to their side via indirect means, often
leaving the new ally unaware of the maneuvering behind
the scenes. This House thrives on plots within plots and
may even employ a strict secret police force within their
own populace to better control enemy activities, but also
foster growth of new agents.

such a House. The Baron and his twisted Mentat were both
masters of intrigue and deception so refined that they broke
the mental training of a Suk doctor and, at the time, brought
House Atreides low through this impossible betrayal.
As a Major House: It is best to leave viper nests alone.
This House has mastered one area of espionage and likely
offers its services to other Houses, such as employing Face
Dancers on singular missions using connections to the
Bene Tleilax, or purchasing the diplomatic secrets of a rival
House from this Espionage House. Even still, at this level,
this House might want to hide their abilities from other
Houses, as they might seem less than honorable.
As a Minor House: Specializing in one area of espionage, this House might train superb diplomats or craft an
expert tool for assassins, or even anti-espionage equipment, but if they know how to build it they know how to
subvert it. This House goes to great lengths to hide their
full subversive abilities so as to not draw the ire of the
Great Houses or lose the trust of their own House Major.
Resources: The resources and holdings of this House
only matter insofar as they further the agenda of the
Ruler of the House. If purchasing 5,000 tons of whale
fur that rots on the docks is needed to hide an assassin
or smuggle out important documents worth far more to
the right buyer, then such purchase is justified, and even
better if the whale fur can be sold, even if at a loss.
Ruler: Old rulers are uncommon for this type of House as
they become too slow to survive the schemes and plots
of their heirs. The rare older ruler of an Espionage House
is a master of terror all should fear. Younger rulers may
still be jumping at shadows and poorly estimating the
abilities of their rivals as they try to settle into their role as
a spider at the center of the web that is their House.
As an Ally: Espionage Houses make for poor allies as
they often have fewer scruples about selling out an ally
for their own ends. However, if a true alliance can be
formed with such a House then the benefits of excellent
intelligence, the deaths of rivals, and ways of subverting
the system others must follow are unparalleled.

As an Enemy: It is rare for a House to know if they are
true enemies of an Espionage House. For they often
accept apologies, payments for slights, and profess
friendship all while planning a House’s destruction for
whatever reason suits them. They go to unusual lengths
and often employ convoluted plans to strike back at
their enemies so that no one knows that it was the
Espionage House who drove the dagger into their back.

As a Great House: The Great Espionage House rules from
the shadows with the ability to apply unorthodox political
pressure upon even the most powerful Houses and entities
within the Empire. CHOAM, the Spacing Guild, and even
the Bene Gesserit step with care around this House, as they
never know where the poisoned dart might fly or for what
reason. House Harkonnen is an infamous example of just

Domains: The following list represents likely domains of this
style of House at each level; feel free to mix and match to fit
your story. Espionage Houses often cloak their subterfuge
activities in more innocuous domains. Secondary domains
are often presented as the primary domain of an Espionage House to outsiders. They are the cloak that hides the
dagger.

Primary Domain (1): Espionage Understanding (Counter-intelligence Techniques)
Secondary Domains (2): Espionage Machinery (Surveillance Devices) and Espionage Workers (Infiltrators)

Primary Domain (2): Kanly Produce (Poisons) and Kanly
Workers (Infiltrators)
Secondary Domains (3): Industrial Workers (Servants),
Science Expertise (Pharmacists), and Espionage Produce
(Blackmail information).

@ A powerful member of the Espionage House,
who is neither a rival nor ally, comes to the player
characters’ House seeking asylum and wishes to
join. They claim to bring secret knowledge with
them that benefits the House, and it does appear,
at short glance, that the information they have
is useful. But can they be trusted? Are they truly

trying to defect? Or are they a double agent trying
to infiltrate the characters’ House on behalf of their
own House? Would it be better to take them in, kill
them, or turn them back over to the other House?

@ The player characters have discovered that there
is at least one mole in their House who is feeding
information back to their enemy, the Espionage
House. There may be more. The players need to
uncover who the mole or moles are and decide
whether to leave them in place and feed bad
intelligence back to the enemy, or if they should
purge them and see if they can clear out any other
internal spies that might have taken up root.

@ A minor House that is friendly towards the player
characters reveals that they are not what they seem.
Instead of the innocent merchants they have long
purported to be, they are, in fact, an Espionage
House. They tell the characters this so that they
might ally with them against a common enemy.
They offer to help train the player characters’ own
intelligence operatives and improve their counterintelligence systems. In exchange, they would like
help in the characters’ domain. Do the players trust
them? Is this House being upfront and helpful, or
are they just setting the characters up for a betrayal
to the third House that they purport to hate as much
as the characters do?

Guild to the ubiquitous utensils used by the countless
masses on every planet are invented, engineered, and
produced in the sprawling factories of the Grand Technological and Industrial Houses and their satellite minor
Houses. The Spacing Guild and other great Houses buy
the very best from such a Great House. House Richese
and House Vernius are both examples of at times Great
Technological Houses, and later the Bene Tleilax assume
that role more directly after taking over Ix.
As a Major House: A Major Technological/Industrial
House can be considered the very best in one area, or
at least rivaling the innovations of one Great House.
They have integrated their supply chain to be able to
not only create, but produce as well, and maybe even
provide the raw materials needed to develop their
primary product. In addition, they are not without one
form of defense: Many other powerful Houses would be
displeased if their supply of the goods produced by this
House were to slow down or stop.
As a Minor House: A Minor Technological/Industrial
House is often one step in a line of production of some
major specialty good, or a major producer of some
common good like furniture. While they cannot corner the
market with what they produce and innovate with, they
still can be useful as their sheer ability to fabricate goods
dwarfs major Houses with other focuses. And if given the
proper motivation and resources they can push themselves
to work above their own standards for short times.

Resources: The resources of this House are focused
on one thing: increasing the profits and production of
the House. Military, artistic, and espionage resources
are only developed up to the level where they prevent
major profit loses for the House, and no further. Everything in this House is bent toward squeezing profit from
whatever domain this House focuses on, and beyond
that it does not matter.
Ruler: Rulers of these Houses tend to be older as they
are often less involved in plots and ploys and directly
dangerous ventures. They also usually have access to
medicines and technologies that extend life beyond the
longevity benefits of spice. Younger rulers often come
into power when something has befallen their previous
ruler and often look to shake things up. Sometimes this
means employing their massive production or technological edge toward dangerous ventures like war or
espionage, or instead focusing on mundane changes
like increasing quality or output.
As an Ally: Militaristic Houses love alliances with technological- and industrial-focused Houses as superior
production and technology often gives an edge when
superior numbers are not there. Technological- and
industrial-focused Houses desire material that is difficult
for them to produce, access to technological breakthroughs, and highly-skilled personnel; in exchange,
they offer beneficial trade deals and access to their best
finished products and technologies.

As an Enemy: Often these Houses do not strike directly
at their enemies. They instead prefer to pay others to do
the fighting for them. Be wary of militant Houses suddenly disliking you for little cause or espionage Houses
trying to cozy up to you if you are enemies with a
powerful Technological or Industrial House. Those other
Houses have likely been paid off or offered sweetheart
deals in exchange for your destruction. If they do take a
direct tack against you, then expect highly sophisticated
and advanced technological attacks that might be difficult to counter.
Domains: The following list represents likely domains
of this style of House at each level; feel free to mix
and match to fit your story. Technological and Industrial Houses focus on building up vertical or horizontal
monopolies related to their primary domain.

Primary Domain (2): Industrial Machinery (Spacecraft)
and Science Understanding (Spacecraft Drives)
Secondary Domains (3): Industrial Workers (Ship Builders), Industrial Expertise (Foremen), and Science Workers (Lab Assistants)

@ A large number of advanced military craft that
appear to be painted in the colors of the player
characters’ enemy have been delivered to them. The
Spacing Guild is adamant that the delivery is not
a mistake, and the House that produced the craft
claims that no such craft were sent to the characters,
and if so, then they should return them. However, the
Guild refused to explain how the characters should
go about returning them. The craft would give the
characters a significant advantage against their
enemy in a battle, but it might turn the current cold
war with them hot, and who knows what gremlins or
Trojan horses have been implanted in these craft.

A rtistic /
R eli g i o u s H o u se
Drawing upon millennia of tradition in the arts of
humanity, the Artistic and Religious Houses create experiences that draw humanity closer to the great ideas,
and closer to God. While they may outwardly seem
very different, Artistic and Religious Houses are at their
core similar in how they go about producing experiences for their patrons. Artistic Houses produce art of
various sorts ranging from the profane to the profound.
Religious Houses produce experiences similar to those
profound Artistic Houses. They both require hierarchical
leaderships that focus legions of dedicated personnel
towards creating these moments that awaken humanity from their slumber of selfish personal focus to the
greater goals of the Imperium and God.
As a Great House: These Houses have produced some
of the greatest thinkers and artists in the history of the
Imperium. Art like the Golden Lion Throne or the great
palaces of the Imperium are but minor works compared
to the litany of art installations these Houses display on
their planets. Great Religious Houses closely follow the
strictures of the Orange Catholic Bible and often act as
leaders in questions of religion and morality within the
Empire, often producing religious leaders as advisors
to other Houses. The Bene Gesserit could arguably be
considered a Religious Great House, as their Reverend
Mothers have infiltrated almost every major and great
House in the Imperium. However, they are not on the
Landsraad, avoid direct political and military power, and
instead focus on more ineffable concerns.
As a Major House: A Major Artistic or Religious House
can be considered the source for a single type of artistic
or religious product. They have cornered the market in
something like the most couture fashion of the Imperial Court, or they craft the finest religious jewelry like
prayer bead necklaces with Zensunni mystic icon portrait
pendants. Much like the Industrial Houses, they are not
seen as a direct military or espionage Threat, and the
disruption of their products would bring the ire of many
powerful Houses.
As a Minor House: As a House Minor, an Artistic House
is likely an emerging art trend that recently became
popular. Or they are a custodian of art trends past
and struggling to maintain relevance. Religious House
Minors are more likely to contain shrines at locations of
minor miracles or holy places. They often have monastic
orders associated with them that produce personnel for
the Orange Catholic faith.
Resources: Artists and priests are the two most important resources either House can produce, as they are
the source of all great art and wisdom created by these
Houses. Keeping them happy and highly productive is
their primary concern, and all resources are aimed at

these endeavors, be they the latest tools and resources
for them to create, or other personnel aimed at reducing stress and boosting artistic output and keeping
religious figures going as they preach the word of God.
Ruler: Old and young rulers of Artistic Houses push
the boundaries to keep their artistic creations fresh and
exciting for patrons. They cultivate friendships with
as many other Houses as possible, both as potential
security and as potential customers for their creations.
Religious rulers do much the same, but their focus is on
saving the souls of their allies and keeping them on a
righteous and holy path, not deviating into proscribed
technologies or sins of disfigurement.
As an Ally: Many Houses have Religious and Artistic
Houses as allies, as the goal of both is to befriend as
many Houses as possible. You can expect them to provide support to win over the hearts and minds of your
enemies, and keep your House well-received by others
of similar mindset. They invite you to the best parties
and the hottest shows, or involve you in august and wise
discussion about the need for morality within the halls of
the Imperium.
As an Enemy: Everyone seems to be against you when
you make enemies with a powerful Artistic or Religious
House. Their social power and whisper campaigns bar
the doors of power to you. You are snubbed at every
turn, and word that you are unfashionable, gauche, or
immoral begins to spread amongst other Houses. Even
if not true, such esoteric rumors are harder to dispel with
displays of power or scientific breakthroughs than when
rumors of weakness in military or technological realms
are spread. One cannot become fashionable or moral
when the decision makers of what is fashionable and/or
moral are arrayed against you.
Domains: The following list represents likely domains
of this style of House at each level; feel free to mix and
match to fit your story. Religious and Artistic Houses
have eclectic domains, as they might pursue multiple
avenues of expression. In addition, they sometimes
also expand into domains that support potential
patrons or industrial bases when their artistry has a
great need for certain resources. It is also worth noting
that Artistic/Religious Houses are just as likely to have
teeth as any other House. Actors and performers often
make very good spies, and it is good to remember that
(officially at least) the Face Dancers of the Bene Tleilax
are entertainers.

@ A troupe of performers who were trained by one
of the player characters' enemies, but declare
themselves independent performers, has arrived
at the characters’ House. They wish to spend
time performing in the House’s territory. They are
considered popular throughout the Imperium, and
slighting them would hurt the characters’ image
among the Landsraad. However, they also brought
along an incredible amount of electronic gear that is
legitimately for productions, but can also be used for
espionage purposes. Do the player characters dare
snub them? And if they let the troupe perform, are
they merely a distraction for another form of attack,
or are the characters being too paranoid and risking
the troupe’s ire from their distrust?

@ Disaster! One of the senior members of the player
characters’ House has become the laughingstock
of the Landsraad for their unfashionable wardrobe
choices. Even Imperial guards and functionaries
titter behind the characters’ backs as they deny
appointments to meet important officials to conduct
business. One even laughed in a character’s face
after making a joke about their own wardrobe!
Clearly, the House’s enemy, an Artistic House, is
behind these attacks, but how to stop them? A
makeover of the characters’ House attire might stem
the tide, or perhaps leaning into the archaic and
backwards dress of the House is the way to go. The
respect of Houses not constrained by fashion can
only deepen.

A g ric u lt u r a l H o u se
Considered by many to be the most basic, yet vital
Houses, the Agricultural Houses (or Farming Houses) focus
on feeding the people of the Imperium. Their task is monumental and never-ending, and it affects every member of
society from the lowliest slave up to the Emperor himself.
After the spice melange, food is considered the single
most important resource that keeps the Empire running.
Without enough food to feed the countless masses, chaos
would reign supreme. Many other Houses produce large
amounts of food as a way to feed their people, but these
Houses focus on producing enough food to feed the
large numbers of people on planets that do not or cannot
produce enough food for their people. Thus, the Spacing
Guild has become a major part in the food supply chain
transporting mind-boggling amounts of foodstuffs every
day in a dizzying web of supply and demand.
The ruling families of Farming Houses are often considered backward and parochial because of the simplistic
and basic domain(s) of their House. Many do not realize
the highly advanced levels of production, co-ordination, and management that leaders of such Houses
need to successfully dedicate entire planets — or at
least continents — to producing food, preparing it for
market, shipping it off-world to planets that need it, and
turning a profit after each growing season. Many have
embraced that simplistic outlook and often embrace
strong views on honor and loyalty.
As a Great House: These Houses feed countless
people, although they likely know just how many they
can feed down to the number of meals they provide per
credit spent in production. They may focus on one or
two staple foods, like pundi rice or golden wheat, but
they also must have major skills in management, logistics, and basic defenses to protect their massively vulnerable production facilities, including fields that cover
continents. House Atreides is a similar example, as it is
often overlooked because their primary domain is pundi
rice, yet their history of integrity has attracted some of
the most skilled advisors and leaders to their House.
As a Major House: These Houses often control one
major sought-after specialty food source, like cultivating
turtlebugs or growing grapes for the coveted Caladanian wine, as well as specializing in domains that support this production. Ecologists and meteorologists are
trained and paid handsomely by these Houses as they
give insight into the future needs of their lands and thus
their future productions and profits.
As a Minor House: These Houses often act as a staple
producer for a larger House that focuses on other
ventures. Often Great and Major Military and Industrial
Houses have farming-focused House Minors that are
built solely to provide the necessary supplies for the soldiers and workers of their parent Houses. Or they focus

on providing a singular farming domain that is no longer
as popular or as useful as other sources of nourishment.
A minor House might also focus on an area outside
production, such as processing or packaging deliveries
from a producing House.
Resources: The resources of Farming Houses are aimed
at producing the largest amount of quality crops in
the shortest amount of time. Timed watering systems;
experts skilled in biology and the genetics and care of
plants and livestock; and advanced soil and water management techniques are their highest priorities. In addition to crops, some food production Houses might focus
on precooking agricultural produce, such as preparing
cake and other baked goods from the raw ingredients
they produce or import.
Ruler: Farming rulers tend toward the stoic and those capable of the long-distance view. They understand the most
basic needs of humanity, and that to fulfill those needs
takes massive long-term planning to not only succeed but
survive. Older rulers often focus on adapting to political
change and understand that even when disaster strikes,
you must pick up and move on. Young rulers see the enormous burden they have taken on and often fight for their
beliefs as if the very life of the Imperium is at stake.
As an Ally: All ruling Houses worry about feeding their
people. Having a Farming House as an ally takes that
concern from one of their top priorities to a minor issue
as food becomes cheap and plentiful and allows the
ruler and their council to focus on other pressing matters. This often-symbiotic relationship frees the Farming
House from concerns beyond the need to provide food.
As an Enemy: Nothing is certain when a Farming House
is your enemy. The spice melange is the reason the
Empire exists, but food is the reason the Empire continues. Cutting off or poisoning food supplies can lead to
not only the death of the people of an enemy House,
but the death of the House itself.
Domains: The following list represents likely domains
of this style of House at each level; feel free to mix and
match to fit your story. Most secondary domains within
a Farming House focus on supporting the primary
domain of agriculture, but often the primary process is
simple enough so that other simple domains like natural
resource extraction or military training can be practiced.

@ The player characters’ latest delivery of rice from
a Farming House they have a standard trade
agreement with has been poisoned. They only
learned of it when one of their guards snuck some for
a late-night snack and died in agonizing pain a few
hours later. The House declares themselves a victim
of a setup as their bill of goods to the Spacing Guild
shows that the rice was untainted when delivered to
the Heighliner. The Spacing Guild also has proof that
they never tampered or let anyone tamper with the
rice while they possessed it. The player characters
didn’t poison their own rice, and no one had enough
time to poison all of it after delivery. Therefore,
someone is lying. Who is the true enemy here? The
Guild? The Farming House? Or a 3rd House or party
that somehow defeated the security measures of one
or both other parties?

@ Two Farming Houses have come to the player
characters to resolve their dispute. During a border
skirmish started by the first House, the second House
started a fire than spread widely and destroyed
millions of hectares of both of their lands. The first
House wants the second House to pay for it, but the
second House refuses because they only started the
fire by accident, they claim, and in defense of the
first House’s attack. They don’t want the Landsraad
involved because the disputed land was being used to
grow illegal narcotics for both Houses. They promise
to cut the player characters in if they arbitrate.

he player characters are members—or
notable supporters—of a Noble House
with spice mining rights on the planet
Arrakis. A crisis threatens the House’s
profits this year: one of their flying carryalls, and its small fleet of ground-based harvesters—has
a poor spice productivity record. The carryall in question
is named after a historical Harkonnen lord: the Graf Von
Dreissen, but its crew know it as 'The Grief'.

The player characters are dispatched to the carryall to
discover the cause of the Grief’s poor productivity and
to take whatever actions are necessary to eliminate
problems and improve matters.

W h e n is t h e
A d v e n t u re S et ?
This adventure is set during the final period of the
Imperium, before the events of the book Dune, and
concerns player characters whose House currently
has fiefdom over spice harvesting on the planet Arrakis. If the players have already created their House
but do not have holdings on Arrakis, you can discuss
changing the era to one when their House does have
rights on the planet.
Alternately, they can play as another House for this
adventure—for example House Harkonnen, the brutal
stewards of Arrakis in the decades leading up to the
assumption of the Arrakis fiefdom by House Atreides.
Finally, they might also be running a spice harvesting
operation under a franchise from another House. This
might be as a favor, or simply because the House
in control of Arrakis is feeling stretched. While this
usually means access only to the less profitable parts
of the operation, the potential for wealth and power
cannot be underestimated.
The business of spice harvesting is known to be a
dirty, dangerous affair, and tensions between the
House, the hard-bitten spice workers, and the elusive, unfriendly local Fremen are often strained and
threaten to boil over into open hostilities, whether
through industrial action or acts of physical conflict.
This adventure is a great introduction to Dune if you
have not played before. However, if you have the
Heirs of Dune you might play this adventure after
completing the Starter Set as part of the ongoing
campaign as the player characters go about managing their new fiefdom.

The adventure consists of three scenes. The first is set
aboard the massive carryall Graf Von Dreissen, ‘the
Grief‘. There, the player characters experience first-hand
the poor management, shoddy equipment, and tension
among spice workers that is partly responsible for the
low productivity. They also can avoid a lethal equipment
malfunction which proves to be the result of industrial
sabotage.
The second scene takes place in the trackless sands of
Arrakis, when the player characters’ 'thopter crash-lands
and they are forced to march out of the desert to safety
before the myriad dangers of the desert bring death to
them all. The player characters must face hostile Fremen
and the ever-present threat of Dune’s colossal sandworms.
In the third scene, the player characters reach the
dubious sanctuary of the spice harvester Alberich and
its shady crew of spice workers. No sooner do they
discover the identity of the saboteur than an incoming
sandworm is spotted, forcing the player characters to
make difficult decisions in a short space of time. They
must choose between escaping the worm, saving the
raw spice cargo, or dealing with the saboteur before the
great sandworm arrives to consume the harvester and
everyone on board.

A ssets
The player characters should all be equipped with
Arrakis-manufactured water-retaining stillsuits (assets of
Quality 0), as they are going about the surface of the
desert planet. Unless a player has specifically indicated
that their suit is of Fremen manufacture—rare and
costly—they are of the inferior type more commonly
available to all.
As this is assumed to be a routine inspection of an
industrial facility needing (at most) a little managerial troubleshooting, the player characters are unlikely
to arrive on the Grief accompanied by a large retinue
of staff or guards, though they can of course create
supporting characters during play using Momentum or
Threat (Supporting Characters, p.136). If so, these are
limited to members of their personal retinue(s).
Should the players strongly request physical protection,
remind them of their characters’ personal combat assets,
be they melee and ranged weapons, shields, or armor.

The player characters disembark from a 'thopter in the
landing bay of the massive carryall Graf Von Dreissen as it
flies over the deserts of Arrakis. The 'thopter—one of the
Grief’s own—picked them up from their House’s estate and
they have spent the voyage to the carryall in its cramped
and dingy interior. The carryall itself is not much better. It is
incredibly noisy onboard the flying factory, and the sweet
cinnamon scent of spice pervades the air, mixed in with the
baser industrial tangs of grease, oil, and ozone.
They are immediately met and welcomed on board by Jaris
Obregon. Obregon is an old friend, relation, or colleague of
one or more of the player characters—allow the players to
choose who—and she greets them all warmly. The character
chosen receives the trait ‘Friend of Obregon’.
“It’s good to see some friendly faces here! Come, let me
show you around.”

Obregon takes the player characters on a tour of the Grief,
guiding them through the decks of the carryall, passing
through bulkheads and ducking under cabling. Spice workers bustle to and fro, going about their business wearing
grimy overalls, some with goggles and breather masks.
Unless the player characters dictate otherwise, Obregon
guides them down the decks of the carryall, past the
crowded untidy crew quarters, the noisy industrial spice
compressor, the deafening engine room, and finally to
the lowest deck where a large harvester vehicle is currently being unloaded of its cargo of raw spice. As they
move through the ship the characters may Understand
(average, D1) that the Grief is in a poor state of repair
and shoddily maintained, and also that many crew members bear the bruises and cuts of scuffles or beatings.

Jaris Obregon serves as the overworked second-incommand of the Grief, a thankless role which combines secretary, administrator, and general gofer. She
is a minor member of the characters’ House, but due
to the circumstances of her birth—she was fathered
by an heir of the House on a lowly servant—she was
seen as something of an embarrassment and eventually sent to work as far away as possible.
Outwardly meek but inwardly seething with resentment and ambition, Obregon has turned traitor to the
House and has been sabotaging the Grief’s already
poor spice production on behalf of her mysterious
‘new patron’. She secretly loathes the House that has
treated her so badly, including the player character(s),
whose friendship toward her she sees as patronizing.
Obregon is the true villain of the adventure, though
it is important that this not become apparent to the
players in Scene One. The gamemaster should take
care to portray Obregon as an ally of the player characters, though not an especially interesting one. She
should come across as a friendly but meek member
of the House, and something of a middle-management nonentity, not likely to amount to much due to
her low station and seemingly modest personality.
She is secretly quite skilled in mechanics and electronics and has received some personal combat training by her father’s staff. She also has a few interesting
personal assets, courtesy of her new patron, such as a
personal shield.

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

Traits: Spice Worker, Administrator
Talents:
@ Cautious (Understand): Obregon may re-roll a
single d20 gained from spending Threat.
Assets: Maula Pistol, Second-in-Command, Patron,
Personal Shield

M eeti n g t h e C o mm a n der
Unless the player characters dictate otherwise, the deferential Obregon swiftly escorts the characters to the bridge
of the Grief, to meet the carryall’s commanding officer,
Globus. The blustering Globus, more an incompetent
factory manager than a commander, grudgingly greets the
characters with the respect due their stations in the House,
but with a degree of exaggerated self-importance.
He vastly overstates the difficulties of running the carryall’s spice operation, while downplaying any suggestion
that the poor condition of the ship and low morale of
the crew is in any way down to shortfalls in his management abilities. Globus blames the low productivity on
the poor quality of the crews.
A successful average (D1) Communicate test identifies
Globus as a blustering fool who has little involvement in
the daily operation of the Grief. The player characters may
make a daunting (D3) Discipline test to upbraid him for his
poor management. Doing so grants them the temporary
trait ‘Envoy of my House’ to represent pulling rank.

C o mpress o r M a l f u n cti o n
At an opportune moment determined by the gamemaster—perhaps in the midst of one of Globus’ diatribes
about the difficulties of recruiting competent workers on
Arrakis—an alarm sounds on the bridge, mercifully cutting
him short. It is followed by a scratchy comms message:
there is a mechanical malfunction in the spice compressor.
All spice processing must halt until the fault is cleared.
If the player characters hurry to the compressor, they
arrive in time to see a carryall worker climbing down into
the spice-caked machine itself. The worker shouts out to
the assembled crew.
“There’s a blockage jamming up the compression
plates. It’s another damned creosote bush. Don’t they
ever weed the spice before unloading?”
The player characters can Understand (average, D1)
that the compressor machine’s emergency stop button
has been thrown, ensuring that the massive metal compressor plates are deactivated so that the worker can
safely climb inside to investigate.
Another successful Understand test (challenging, D2)
reveals that underneath the din of the carryall engines,

there is a low thrum that indicates the compressor machine
is still powered on. The worker is in imminent danger
of being crushed to death! If so forewarned, the player
characters can shout a warning to the worker, try to cut the
power somehow (no roll required as the machinery is fairly
easy to understand). Or they can bravely try to haul the
worker out—a daunting (D3) Move test.
If the player characters do not intervene, or are not even
present at the compressor, as soon as the doomed worker
tugs the mangled creosote bush free of the mechanical
jaws, he is bloodily crushed to death by the compressor.

S a b o tag e
The player characters can make a thorough investigation—a daunting (D3) Understand test—of the
compressor, or another carryall mechanic does so if
none of the characters take the initiative. Someone has
deliberately and recently rewired the machine’s power
supply so that it remains powered on, even though the
emergency stop button was pressed. That means that
the machine was a potential death trap from then on. It
was just a matter of time until it jammed and someone
climbed down to investigate.
While the player characters consider who might have sabotaged the compressor, the helpful Obregon disappears off
and soon reappears with the carryall maintenance log. The
log shows the characters that it was a carryall mechanic
named Euler who last worked on the compressor.
Obregon obligingly notes that Euler has a record of
bad discipline, elaborating that he was recently caught
‘being disrespectful’—’Answering back to Globus’, she
adds—and consequently demoted to work at a distant
spice storage depot and reserve processing facility
across the desert. The depot is many kilometers away in
the desert, but reachable by fast 'thopter flight in under
an hour. Though she is not so blatant, everything Obregon says suggests that she believes that the accident
was a work of sabotage by a malcontent Euler.
“An act of revenge!”
The scene ends with Obregon leading the player characters
to a 'thopter so that they can question this Euler themselves, be he fool or saboteur. If they do not come to this
conclusion, it is suggested by the helpful Obregon. If they
ask to divert the carryall itself, they are told that such would
cause an even greater delay with production, cost valuable
fuel, and they would still need to use the 'thopter to land.
Unknown to the player characters, the real saboteur
is none other than the friendly Obregon herself. Wary
of outsiders continuing to sniff around the Grief and
uncovering her activities, the treacherous Obregon has
misdirected them toward Euler, to lure them off the
carryall. Moreover, she has used her mechanical skills to
sabotage their 'thopter. It will never reach the depot...

Lorrimer Globus is the commanding officer of the
Grief. He is a time-serving bureaucrat who has
advanced as high as his lack of ability permits and
has thus reached the pinnacle of his incompetence.
Unimaginative, self-important, and lazy, he lets
Obregon handle the day-to-day administration of
the Grief.
His favorite problem-solving method is to find a likely
scapegoat and brutally punish them, and then make
a blustering announcement to the crew over the
comms system that the problem has been solved.
Globus resents interference from higher up the command structure—such as the player characters—but
grudgingly complies with direct orders. He is happy
to see the departure of interfering higher-ups and
outsiders, particularly the player characters.
Traits: Carryall Commander, Unpopular
Talents:
@ Constantly Watching: Whenever Globus
attempts a test to detect danger or hidden
enemies, he reduces the Difficulty by 2, to a
minimum of 0. In addition, once per scene, he
can increase the cost to keep the initiative by +2.

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

Assets: Carryall Commander, Knife, Servant of the
Residency

The player characters take a 'thopter from the carryall
and head to the distant storage depot to question the
suspected saboteur Euler. But some kilometers out,
a mechanical alert blares. Their pilot, Taryn Jellicoe,
shouts that the craft’s engine has suffered a catastrophic
failure. Smoke and fire billow from the engine, visible
from the cockpit, and the cockpit begins to fill with
metallic-smelling smoke.
The 'thopter starts to lose power and altitude, dropping
toward the searing desert below!

G o i n g D ow n
If a player character chooses to wrest the controls from
the pilot, they can attempt to pass a daunting (D3)
Move test and land the 'thopter rather than letting it
crash. They land hard and the 'thopter takes a lot of
damage, but there is no serious harm to anyone inside
the 'thopter, and they suffer only minor bumps, taking
the new temporary trait ‘Rattled’.
If the 'thopter is not piloted by a player character, their
pilot Jellicoe fails to bring the 'thopter down safely. It
crashes to the desert floor, sending the vehicle tumbling
violently across the dunes, until it comes to a shuddering stop, half buried in the sand. The pilot suffers a
broken leg, and everyone else must pass a challenging
(D2) Move test to only suffer the ‘Bruised’ trait. If they
fail, they become ‘Battered’.

A ssessi n g t h e D a m a g e
However they get down, the 'thopter is a wreck and
cannot be flown. The pilot may be incapacitated. The
radio inside the craft is inoperable. The player characters’ personal comms devices don’t have the range to
raise the distant carryall Grief, or the even more distant
storage depot.
Smart players may direct their characters to examine their
wrecked 'thopter to Understand (average D1) what went
wrong. Among the burnt remains of the engine they
discover a charred but obviously cut fuel line, the source of
the engine fire. Was someone trying to murder them before
they can uncover the truth of the compressor sabotage?
The stillsuit of one of the player characters—the gamemaster chooses who, likely based on who was injured—
was ripped in the crash-landing. If the player characters
check their stillsuits, they discover that a catch pocket
on one suit has been slashed open. A rough repair job
with tape can limit the water loss, though that player
character is still a little low on water.
The player characters can salvage some meager supplies
from the wreckage if they think to do so: extra water,

R e v iewi n g t h e O pti o n s
The pilot Jellicoe can help the player characters review
their options. With comms inoperable, there is no way
they can complete their journey across the vast, searingly hot desert to the distant storage depot on foot.
Their best bet is to head back to the sector of desert
where the carryall and its harvesters are operating until
they can get within comms range or can signal a scout
'thopter. Nonetheless, this is still a journey of many
kilometers across the sand on foot.
If Jellicoe suffered a broken leg in the landing, the
player characters must decide whether to be humane
and bring her along, though she slows them down, or
pragmatically leave the pilot behind, as she expects
them to (albeit with a promise to send help).
If the player characters need encouragement to
get moving, a successful average (D1) Understand
test shows a distant crest of sand heading their way. A
sandworm has detected the impact of the 'thopter and
is coming towards the crash site. They need to hurriedly
Move (challenging, D2) at least a kilometer from the
crash site before the worm breaches the desert surface
and consumes the wrecked craft (and possibly Jellicoe).
Anyone who fails is able to get to safety but gains the
complication 'Exhausted'. Anyone carrying Jellicoe
who fails the test cannot escape the worm. They must
choose whether to abandon Jellicoe and live or both be
consumed. There is no time for someone else to take
her. The desert only offers hard choices.

C r o ssi n g t h e D esert
The player characters’ trek across the desert is slow,
tiring, and thirsty work. After their exertion, the player
characters need to drink water to refresh themselves. If
they thought to bring extra water from the 'thopter, then
they are all fully refreshed. If they did not think to bring
extra water, they must rely on their stillsuits, which, unless
they are of Fremen design, are less than optimal and all
affected player characters suffer the ‘Thirsty’ trait. If they
have no extra water and did not discover that one of their
number has a damaged stillsuit, then that character also
receives the ‘Weakened’ Complication.
Bringing Jellicoe along forces the player characters
carrying her to make a challenging (D2) Move test, with
failure earning them the ‘Fatigued’ trait.

DRIVE

Taryn Jellicoe is a 'thopter pilot for the carryall
Graf Von Dreissen, or the characters’ House if that
is more appropriate. Arrakis born and bred, she
has some desert survival skills which the characters may need. She might also be a Fremen,
secretly weighing up the characters’ worth/threat
to her people. Either way, Jellicoe is honest,
extremely pragmatic, and not very talkative.
Traits: Pilot, Arrakis Native
Talents:
None

SKILL

Assets: Knife, 'Thopter, Stillsuit

FOCUSES

Drasil is the chief of a small band of desert
Fremen. Like all Fremen, he is characteristically
wary of off-worlders. His people have been much
wounded by hostile encounters with the player
characters’ House of late, and he is proud, so he
does not offer the hand of friendship easily. He is
curious about these particular off-worlders, however, traipsing across the desert and risking their
lives. But he is also accustomed to trading his
band’s own small spice reserves with smugglers
in return for contraband goods like weapons and
other technology.

DRIVE

SKILL

Traits: Fremen, Wary
Talents:
@ Resilience (Battle): Drasil may resist defeat
twice in a scene when in a conflict using the
listed skill.
Assets: Crysknife, Fremen Leader, Fremkit, Stillsuit

FOCUSES

A daunting D3 Understand test alerts the player
characters to the presence of several people hiding
up ahead, behind a rocky outcrop. If forewarned, the
player characters can quickly prepare, such as arming
themselves, changing direction, or splitting up.
Regardless of what they plan or attempt, a group of
wary Fremen (see Fremen Warrior, p.280) appears
atop the rocks before the player characters, at a distance just beyond close combat weapon range. The
Fremen are well-armed and seem ready for a fight. At
first, they unnervingly say nothing and make no signal,
interested in seeing how the player characters react
to their presence. Unknown to the player characters,
unless they pass a daunting (D3) Battle test, two
further Fremen are hidden off to one side, flanking the
player characters, ready to attack should they make a
hostile move.
The player characters have a tricky social challenge. Do
they immediately enter into combat with the reclusive,
notoriously hostile, natives, or try to Communicate
with them? If the player characters are quick to reach
for knives the gamemaster should remind them they
are outnumbered and the Fremen appear to be experienced fighters. Perhaps the Fremen can be bought off,
for a suitable payment from the player characters, but
this is unlikely as the player characters are carrying little
of value and the Fremen do not take promises instead
of something they can carry.
Perhaps the Fremen can be convinced of the player
characters’ worth to them in other ways. The wrong
choice could end in death for either party, or the start
of a Fremen vendetta against the House.
If the player characters do nothing, at length the
Fremen chief calls out to them and asks what they are
doing here. Jellicoe, if still with the player characters,
advises them to consider carefully before replying,
but not to take too long. If the player characters act
suspiciously, or lie badly, or reply with disrespect,
aggression, hostility, or assumed authority, the Fremen
quickly turn hostile and demand that the player characters show them—and the desert—respect. The player
characters will need to defuse tempers with an immediate Communicate test, the Difficulty depending on
how they have behaved. If they have been respectful
and polite it will be average (D1) but if they have been
rude and aggressive it might easily be dire (D4). If the
test fails, the Fremen bring out their weapons and
attack—or worse—simply vanish and leave the player
characters to the desert.
The gamemaster should handle this combat carefully,
reviewing the rules on p.174-176. This may be the
players’ first experience with combat using these rules,
and it is encouraged that their introduction emphasizes

tactics, strategic thinking, and the potential deadliness
of plunging into combat in unfamiliar terrain against
unknown enemies.
See p.280 for a writeup of the Fremen warriors. Each is
equipped with crysknives, full desert gear, and wearing
Fremen-made stillsuits. They have ample water, and
were just setting out from their home sietch, on a mission they will not divulge. There will be at least as many
as two per player character.
The Fremen are not fanatics, and fight cannily, using the
terrain as cover, attacking, and then moving. The Fremen
do not regard the player characters as worth losing the
lives of any of their own. If the player characters put up a
strong resistance and kill or seriously wound one or more
of the Fremen, the desert band tactically retreats, carrying off any fallen allies, disappearing into the dunes.
The player characters have now made an implacable enemy.

T r a di n g wit h t h e F reme n
If the player characters manage to not provoke the
Fremen, Drasil the chief asks for a gift in return for
granting them safe passage through the desert. The
Fremen do not want the characters’ ‘inferior’ stillsuits—
nor would even they sentence someone to walk the
desert without one—but they do accept containers of
precious water or personal weapons, though not personal shields, which they scoff at. The player characters
might consider this a small price to pay for surviving an
encounter with the Fremen.
If the player characters show the Fremen respect and
gift them willingly and appropriately, the Fremen chief
Drasil becomes well disposed towards them, and offers
them a gift in return. It is a Fremen thumper device,
which he explains how to use. The player characters
have made a potential ally.
The scene ends with a crackle on the player characters’
comms devices. A scout 'thopter from a nearby harvester, loyal to their House, has followed their trail, but
does not know their exact location. The nervous thopter
pilot is reluctant to set down in the desert with reports
of Fremen about, so instead he directs the player characters to his harvester, the Alberich, not far away.
If they have a wounded person with them, a challenging (D2) Communicate test convinces the pilot to land
and pick the wounded pilot up, or any player characters injured in battle with the Fremen. They can also
emphasize how it is essentially their right as representatives of their House, which does not require a test
but earns them gruff, unfriendly service. The 'thopter
is a light one, with a cramped cabin able to fit only two
additional people, so the rest must continue on foot.
Whichever the case, the Fremen disappear into the
dunes before the 'thopter can see them.

A hatch opens up high on the harvester’s side and a big,
filthy, thuggish spice worker demands to know who the
player characters are and what they want.
“We’ve got a job to do here. We can’t stop operations
just to pick up idiots who can’t keep their 'thopter up in
the air!”
In truth, the thuggish spice worker Metzos is running a
lucrative spice smuggling racket from the Alberich and
does not want anyone climbing on board and snooping
around. The player characters must successfully
Communicate (challenging, D2) how it is to her
advantage to let them onboard, or else stamp their
authority on the thug and her crew with a daunting (D3)
Discipline test. Alternatively, there is always the option
of physically forcing their way on board.
If the player characters manage to climb on board the
Alberich and take shelter from the desert at last, they
find a cramped, badly-lit interior that is louder and
filthier than the carryall Grief, and even more suffused
with the cinnamon scent of spice.

Jothi Metzos is the thuggish skipper of the harvester Alberich. Big, crude, and unafraid of a little
trouble, she runs a neat little smuggling racket,
skimming off substantial amounts of raw spice and
selling it to private enterprises. She pockets much
of the profit herself but shares enough with the
rest of the harvester crew to make it worth their
while. That and the threat of being thrown out of
the harvester if they say anything keeps them in
line. Metzos is direct and lacking in any cunning,
but is greedy and can be bought off, or intimidated by anyone able to prove they are tougher
than she herself is.
Traits: Spice Worker, Captain
Talents:
@ Find Trouble: May contact the criminal
underworld.
Assets: Maula Pistol, Harvester Captain, Criminal
Contacts

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

DRIVE

SKILL

FOCUSES

Traits: Mechanic, Hard Worker
Talents:
@ Dedication: If there is no Threat at the start of a
scene, Euler may roll 1D20 under his Discipline
to gain 1 Threat.

Assets: Toolkit, Knife

This rough group of spice harvesters are used
to life in the cramped and noisy environment of
the Alberich. They’ve worked for whomever pays
them and have no particular loyalty to the player
characters’ House. Native to Arrakis, they are from
the ‘pyon’ class, city-bred and without the hardy
resilience of the Fremen, whom they despise and
fear. Though they are compliant with Metzos’
smuggling and have enjoyed the personal gains,
they know that exposure could lead to their
deaths, so they are reluctant to fight the player
characters, unless prodded by Metzos, Obregon,
or both.
Traits: Spice Workers
Drive: 4 (use for all Drives)
Talents: None
Assets: Tools, Knife

SKILL

FOCUSES

goose chase, the gamemaster can put them on that
track by pointing out that one of the gruff Alberich crew
is the very mechanic identified as the compressor saboteur by Obregon’s maintenance log back on the Grief.
What is he doing here on the Alberich? Discipline does
not work on Euler but Communicate does.

The mechanic is surly and disrespectful when talking to the
player characters, but he is telling the truth when he says
that he had nothing to do with the compressor sabotage,
and has never worked at the storage depot the player
characters were going to. In fact, he has been working
ceaselessly on this harvester for weeks, with no time for
carryall maintenance duties. With a further challenging (D2)
Communicate success, he also reveals that in fact he was
assigned here by Obregon herself. Someone somewhere
is lying. If the player characters have any Momentum they
might use some here to Obtain Information.

If the player characters pass a challenging (D2) Understand
test, they notice that several barrels of raw spice are marked
with a crudely sprayed symbol in chalk. An additional
point of Momentum provides the additional information
that the symbol is a rough representation of a rival House.
These barrels are to be smuggled off Arrakis for a healthy
profit, all of it going to Metzos and her crew, not the player
characters’ own House. If the player characters confront the
harvester crew with this accusation, they react by giving up
Metzos and blaming her entirely, out of fear that the House’s
reprisal will result in their imprisonment or even execution.

A N o t - s o F r i e n d ly F ac e
Before the player characters get too involved with
Metzos’ smuggling operation or any revelations about
Euler not being the saboteur, a 'thopter lands outside. It
is Obregon. She flew directly from the Grief the moment
she picked up comm signals that the characters were
alive and on the Alberich.
Obregon tells the player characters that she was ‘worried’ when she received no signal that they had
reached the storage depot. Allow the player characters
daunting (D3) Communicate tests to detect that she is
both nervous and lying (the trait ‘Friend of Obregon’
will be useful here). In truth, as the real saboteur and
a traitor to the characters’ House, she sabotaged both
the compressor and then the 'thopter to rid herself of
the meddling player characters. When comms from
the harvester’s scout 'thopters reached the carryall with
word of the player characters’ survival, Obregon flew
to the Alberich to deal with them personally, though at
great risk to herself.
If the player characters have seen through their supposed
friend’s feeble story, and want to have some harsh words
with her, Obregon drops the friendly act and stands
unashamedly revealed as a traitor to the House, freely
admitting that she was the saboteur all along and has
been promised to be well rewarded, by her new patron,
for damaging the hated House’s spice operations. She
takes cover behind the harvester crew and offers the
greedy Metzos a substantial bribe to deal with the player
characters, which leads to violence between the characters, the Alberich crew and the traitor.
How this plays out is up to the gamemaster, based on
the player characters’ actions. If the gamemaster has
Threat to spend, Obregon might have a bomb that
could destroy the harvester or at least call a worm.

W o rm S i g n
A great sandworm will be upon the harvester in 15–20
minutes. Any conflict brewing ceases immediately as
survival becomes the pressing concern for everyone
aboard the harvester. The scout 'thopter that encountered the player characters lands, along with two
others who were on patrol.
Unfortunately, the carryall Grief, if signaled on the
Alberich’s comms, regrets that further mechanical difficulties on board mean that it will be at least an hour
before they can get to the Alberich. This is the truth
but is the result of commander Globus’ poor management and the dreadful state of the carryall.
The harvester crew immediately ceases any hostilities
toward the player characters and flies into a disorganized, panicking rabble. Most grab a few personal items
and sacks of raw spice, and begin to fight over seats
in the four available 'thopters—including Obregon’s—

which have now landed outside. There are far too few
seats in the 'thopters to fit the entire crew and the
player characters. Even if they are packed with people
and can just barely take off, roughly 12 people will still
be left behind to face the oncoming worm.
Metzos shows surprising courage, or greed, and
chooses to stay with the Alberich, looking to the
player characters to somehow save the harvester and
her cargo of spice. The traitor Obregon, if she is not
already immobilized, takes advantage of the confusion
to disappear, either to escape or further imperil the
player characters, at the gamemaster’s discretion.
As the clock ticks away and the great worm draws ever
closer (it will be there in three rounds) the player characters have some tough choices to make:

@ Do they offer the panicking crew valuable rewards
to claim evacuation spaces on the 'thopters for
themselves, or do they Battle (challenging, D2)
the crew for seats? Or do they use Discipline
(challenging, D2) to impose some sort of order and
fairness on the panicked evacuation?

@ Do they attempt to Move (dire, D4) the harvester

to a distant rocky outcrop and claim the relative
safety of solid ground, gambling that they and the
precious cargo of spice will make it there before the
sandworm arrives? This is an extended test with a
requirement of 10 (p.159).

@ Do they try something clever to lure the sandworm
away from the harvester, using knowledge or assets
they acquired in the desert, such as planting a
Fremen thumper at a distance from the harvester?
And do they have the means, skill, and luck to pull it
off? This is an extended task with a requirement of 8
(see p.159).

@ Do they try to Understand (average, D1) what drew
the sandworm here, and search for the concealed
thumper in the landing gear of Obregon’s 'thopter,
activated by her to doom the player characters?
A successful test reveals the thumper, causing
the ground to vibrate ever so subtly near the rear
landing strut.

And what of the traitor Obregon? Does she use the
imminent worm situation to make good her escape
in a 'thopter? If confronted, she admits to using the
thumper, claiming that she planned on getting away and
destroying the harvester entirely, sacrificing the crew to
cover up the murder of the player characters.
Or does she take advantage of the player characters’
attempts to save the harvester to attack them with her
personal assets, even at the risk of losing her own life?
Does she succeed? Does she get away?

C o n cl u si o n
How do the player characters intend to follow up on
the dreadful state of the carryall Graf Von Dreissen?
Do they reprimand the terrible commander Globus?
Does the chastised commander remain in place, now
quite hostile to the player characters? Do they recommend that Globus be removed from his post? What
then becomes of the dismissed Globus? Who does he
throw his lot in with? Does the poor spice production
of the Grief and its harvesters improve or continue?
How did the encounter with the Fremen end? Did
they part as enemies, allies, or something in between?
Was blood spilled, or were gifts given? Were the
player characters effectively robbed and shamed? Is
the Fremen chief Drasil now an implacable enemy,
or a potential friend and ally? Either way, the Fremen
do not forget their chance meeting in the desert, and
soon contact the characters, wanting either revenge
or a favor.

Which House was Metzos smuggling raw spice to? Do
the player characters put a stop to the racket, or turn
it to their own advantage?
What became of the traitor Obregon? Was she
exposed by the player characters’ investigations or
did she choose to reveal herself? Was she captured
alive, killed in a struggle, or did she escape? Will she
bedevil the player characters another day, now a fugitive from her own House but with intimate knowledge
of its operations and facilities?
Did she reveal the identity of her new patron? Is it an
obvious suspect like a rival House, or a supposedly
friendly House? Perhaps her new patron is not really
from another House at all, but from a cunning third
party—such as the Bene Gesserit or the Padishah
Emperor himself—intent on instigating a war between
the player characters’ House and a rival House for
their own Machiavellian reasons.

TRAITS

Dune © 2020 Legendary. Dune: Adventures in the Imperium is an officially sub-licensed property from Gale Force Nine, a Battlefront Group Company. All Rights Reserved., except the Modiphius Logo which is Modiphius Entertainment Ltd.

BACKGROUND
NAME
PERSONALITY TRAITS
HOUSE

FACTION
AMBITION

DRIVE

DUTY:
FAITH:
JUSTICE:
POWER:
TRUTH:

ASSETS

SKILL

FOCUSES

BATTLE:
COMMUNICATE:
DISCIPLINE:
MOVE:
UNDERSTAND:

ADVANCEMENT
DETERMINATION
POINTS

@ Battle: Physical conflict
and strategy.

@ Communicate:
Social tests.

@ Discipline:

@ Move:

@ Duty:

@ Make something easier to attempt (–1 Difficulty).

@ Make something harder to attempt (+1 Difficulty, or

need a Skill Test when it wouldn’t normally).

@ Truth:

D i f f ic u lt y L e v els
Simple (Difficulty 0)
@ Nudging open a stuck door.
@ Investigating a subject of common knowledge.
@ Asking for a simple favor.

Average (Difficulty 1)
@ Overcoming a simple lock.
@ Investigating private but not secret knowledge.
@ Asking for a significant favor from a friend.

Challenging (Difficulty 2)
@ Overcoming a complex lock.
@ Investigating confidential or hidden knowledge.
@ Asking for a favor that costs the benefactor
something minor.

1. Player describes action.
2. Gamemaster decides on appropriate skill and assigns
a Difficulty.
3. Player chooses a Drive statement:
@ If one is relevant, use that Drive.
@ If none are relevant use one of the remaining Drives.
@ If one conflicts or mismatches you may challenge
or comply with the test.
4. Check to see if a focus can be applied (max of 1)
5. Spend Threat, Momentum, and/or Determination
points to modify the test
6. Roll the dice and count successes:
@ Each die that scores the target number or below
is a success.
@ A roll of 1 (or up to the skill value if using a focus)
is a critical and yields two successes.
@ Each success beyond the required Difficulty
earns 1 Momentum.

@ Target Number = Skill + Drive
@ Dice Pool = 2d20, max dice pool 5d20

Daunting (Difficulty 3)

@ Each assistant rolls only 1d20 (Momentum cannot

@ Target number is their choice of skill + Drive, Focus

by a powerful faction.

Dire (Difficulty 4)
@ Overcoming a complex lock, in a hurry, without the right
tools.

Epic (Difficulty 5)
@ Overcoming a complex lock, in a hurry, without the
right tools, during a battle.

Complications
COMP.
RANGE

Complications result on a roll of 20 on any dice.

Success at cost
A roll may be changed to a bare success if the character
suffers a complication

Determination may only be spent on a test where a Drive
statement applies without conflict with the action. If a
player opts to challenge or comply on a test, they may
gain 1 Determination. Determination may be spent in the
following ways, each use costs 1 point:

Players can add to the Threat pool in the following ways:

@ Buying d20s: As Momentum (1–3 Threat/Die)
@ Ignore Complications: (2 Threat/ complication)
@ Escalation:: Some actions may ‘escalate’ a situation,

@ Automatic 1: On a single die.
@ Re-roll: Any or all dice.
@ Declaration: Create a new trait or change or remove

giving the gamemaster 1 Threat. (1 Threat)

The gamemaster may add to Threat in the following ways:

@ Threatening Circumstances: The environment or

@ Extra Action: Act again during a conflict.

circumstances of a new scene may add to threat.
(1 - 2 Threat)

If the statement for the Drive being used does not
contradict the action of the skill test, proceed as normal.
The player may spend Determination on the test.
If the statement for the Drive being used contradicts the
action of the skill test, a challenge has occurred. The gamemaster may offer the character a Determination point.

@ If the player refuses the Determination point, they fail
the skill test with no further consequences.

@ If the player accepts the Determination point, they

must challenge or comply with their Drive statement.
In both cases they use the chosen Drive and make the
skill test as normal, but afterwards...
@ If they comply they receive a complication.

Drive statement used and must change or recover
it to use that Drive.

Recovering a Drive
Between adventures or in a scene where the character can
come to terms with their priorities:

@ Reduce the Drive that has been crossed out by 1

@ Non-player Character Momentum: Non-player

character bonus successes add to the Threat pool,
instead of Momentum. (Varies by success)

Spending Threat (GM)
@ Buying d20s (1–3 points/die)
@ The first die costs 1 Threat.
@ The second die costs 2 Threat.
@ The third die costs 3 Threat.
@ Increase Difficulty: The gamemaster can choose to

increase the Difficulty of a single skill test before the roll
by one for every 2 Threat spent. (2 Threat)

@ Non-player Character Threat Spends: When a player

character’s action would normally add points to Threat,
a non-player character performing that same action,
or making the same choice, must spend an equivalent
number of points of Threat.

@ Buy off Non-player Character Complications: The
gamemaster may buy off a non-player characters’
complication by spending 2 Threat. (2 Threat)

@ Traits: The gamemaster may change, remove, or create
a trait by spending 2 Threat. (2 Threat)

@ Environmental Effects and Narrative Changes: The
gamemaster may trigger or cause problems with the
scene or environment by spending Threat. (Various)

@ Increase the Drive it is now equal to by 1.
@ Create a new Drive statement for any Drive rated 6 or
more without one. It should relate to the action that
caused the challenge.

@ Rival House Action: The gamemaster may spend Threat
to introduce a known enemy House to the situation.
(1 Threat)

@ Determination: Non-player characters can spend 3

Threat to effectively use a Determination point. If they
gain a Determination point, they instead gain 3 Threat.

@ Buying d20s (1–3 points/die)
@ The first die costs 1 Momentum.
@ The second die costs 2 Momentum.
@ The third die costs 3 Momentum.

@ Create a Trait (2 points)
@ This must relate to the action the

@ Obtain Information (1 Point/question)
@ Each point of Momentum the

character has just attempted, and
it must be something that could
reasonably result from that action.

Types of Conflict:
@ Personal – Dueling (corebook, p.171).
@ Skirmish – Multiple opponents (corebook, p.174).
@ Warfare – Large scale conflict (corebook, p.180).
@ Espionage – Spying (corebook p.177).
@ Intrigue – Social conflict (corebook, p.184).

Moving Assets
To move an asset from one zone to the next requires a skill
test (Difficulty 2).
You may spend 2 Momentum to move an additional zone.

@ If you move an asset subtly, you reduce the cost to
keep the initiative to 0 if you succeed.

@ If you move an asset boldly, then you may move one
of an opposing character’s assets by one zone if you
succeed.
@ If you fail, you may not spend Momentum on additional
movement, and one enemy may move a single asset
one zone. You may not keep the initiative.

Use of Assets
Common examples of ways to use an asset include:

@ Attacking an opponent with the intent of harming or

defeating them (see Attack Sequence and Resisting
Defeat, opposite).

@ Attempting to remove an opponent’s asset from play.
@ Attempting to create a new trait for the scene, or a new
asset for yourself or an ally.

1. Choose your target and the asset you’re using to attack.
2. Make a Contest skill test against your opponent. The
attacker’s final Difficulty increases by +1 for each defensive asset in the target’s zone.
a. If you win the contest, then you successfully
attack the enemy.
b. If you lose the contest, then your attack has
failed, and the action ends. You may not keep the
initiative after this.
3. If you successfully attacked, the results are as follows:
a. If the enemy is a minor non-player character
or minor supporting character, then they are
defeated immediately.
b. If the enemy is a notable or major non-player
character, a notable supporting character, or a
main player character, then defeating them is an
extended task. Each character has an extended
task track with a requirement equal to a relevant
skill, which is used to track how close to defeat
that character is. Each successful attack against a
character scores points towards that extended task
equal to 2 plus the attacking asset’s Quality, and
you may add +1 to this by spending 2 Momentum.
A character is defeated when their track is full.
4. If you defeated an opponent, then you may spend 2
Momentum to inflict a lasting defeat.

Resisting Defeat
All player characters, notable and major non-player/
supporting characters may resist defeat once per scene.

@ When they do, they are simply not defeated and may
continue the conflict, but are not healed in any way.

@ It costs 1 Momentum, or adds 1 to Threat, and causes
you to suffer a complication.

@ Attempting to gain information about the situation.
@ Attempting to remove a trait or similar complication
from an ally, or to aid a defeated ally.

@ The amount of Momentum, or Threat spent to Resist
Defeat increases by an amount equal to the Potency of
the asset used to cause that defeat.

Gaining Advancement Points

Spending Advancement Points

During an adventure, you can gain advancement points with:

@ Skill: 10+1/advance

@ Adversity:
@ Pain: When you are defeated during conflict.
@ Failure: When you fail a test with a Difficulty of 3 or higher.
@ Peril: When the gamemaster spends 4 or more Threat

@ Focus: 1× total Focuses

@ Impressing the Group: For a good plan, roleplaying scene, or
noteworthy contribution (limit of 1 per session for any player).

@ Talent: Total Talents ×3
@ Retrain: You may advance a skill, focus, or talent by

@ Drives: Can only be altered through play.
See p146-147 & p.150.

@ Traits: One trait as a basic

@ Traits: One trait as a basic description

@ Traits: One trait each for their role

@ Drives: Instead, use a single Drive

rating, from 4–8, which is added
instead of a Drive for any test. They
have no Drive statements.

@ Skills:
@ One skill ranked at 6 (the one
most relevant to their job).

@ Two skills ranked at 5, and two

of their job or role, such as Military
Officer, Steward, Pilot, or Scholar.
Some may also have a second trait,
reflecting the character’s reputation.

@ Drives: Two Drives rated at 6 and 7. For
all other Drives, they use a score of 5.
They have a Drive statement for one or
both of their higher-rated Drives.

@ Skills:
@ One skill ranked at 7 (the one

@ Focuses: One focus for the skill
ranked at 6.

@ Focuses: One Focus for any skill

and reputation. They may have a
third faction trait if applicable.

@ Drives: They have the full range of

Drive scores, rated 8, 7, 6, 5, and 4,
and a statement for each Drive rated
at 6 or higher.

@ Skills: Begin each skill at 4, and

freely assign 11 more points. No skill
may be rated at higher than 8.

@ Focuses: Three to five focuses, as
required by their concept.

ranked at 6, and two Focuses for any
skill ranked at 7.

@ Proficiency: When using a specific skill in a certain way, the cost to buy the first bonus d20 is 0.
@ Threatening: When using a specific skill, or acting in a certain way, and buying additional d20s with Threat, you may re-roll a
single d20.

@ Guidance: Whenever you assist an ally in a certain way, re-roll your d20.
@ Substitution: When making a specific skill test you may use a specific skill regardless of the one usually required.
@ Familiarity: Whenever you attempt to perform a specific skill test, you may reduce the Difficulty by 1, to a minimum of 0.
@ Additional Threat Option: You can gain a specific or unique benefit by spending 1 or more Threat.

Actions..................................166
Attacks, Defeat,
and Recovery.................. 167
Contest Results................... 167
Move................................... 166
Successful
Attack Outcomes............ 167
Use an Asset........................ 166
-Adventures..........................221
Campaigns.......................... 221
Creating Locations.............. 222
Creating Your
Own Campaign .............. 221
Published Campaigns......... 221
Agents and Architects..............7

Ambition.......................107, 123
Areas of Expertise..................88
Artistic................................... 88
Espionage............................. 88
Farming................................. 88
Industrial................................ 88
Kanly..................................... 89
Military.................................. 89
Political.................................. 89
Religion................................. 90
Science.................................. 90

Archetypes (Character).........113
Academics (Understand)...118
Empath................................ 118
Scholar................................ 118
Spy...................................... 118
Strategist............................. 118
Adepts (Move)..................117
Athlete................................ 117
Messenger........................... 117
Scout................................... 117
Smuggler............................. 117
Disciples (Discipline).........116
Analyst................................. 116
Herald................................. 116
Infiltrator.............................. 116
Protector............................. 116
Socialites (Communicate)..115
Commander........................ 115
Courtier............................... 115
Envoy.................................. 115
Steward............................... 115
Warmasters (Battle)..........114
Duelist................................. 114
Sergeant.............................. 114
Tactician.............................. 114
Warrior................................ 114
Arrakeen.................................67
Arrakis....................................65

Assets....................122, 164,189
Assets (Defensive)............... 168
Assets and Traits................. 191
Creating a Trait or Asset...... 168
Creating and
Developing Assets............ 190
Determination and Assets... 191
Making Assets Personal...... 122
Structure of an Asset........... 190
Assets - Espionage............206
Bene Gesserit
Coded Dots ................... 208
Chaumas and Chaumurky... 207
Communication................... 208
Contacts and Agents........... 209
Dartgun............................... 206
Distrans .............................. 209
Drugs................................... 207
Elacca ................................. 208
Face Dancer ....................... 209

Flip-dart............................... 206
Intelligence.......................... 209
Interrogation....................... 209
Map..................................... 209
Mentat Master
of Assassins..................... 210
Poisoned Tooth .................. 206
Political Spy......................... 210
Residual Poison .................. 208
Semuta................................ 208
Shere................................... 208
Shigawire Garrote............... 207
Shigawire............................. 209
Slip-tip................................. 207
Truthsayer Drug .................. 208
Verite .................................. 208
Assets - Intrigue................211
Ambitious Newcomer......... 214
Black Market Trader............ 214
Blackmail............................. 213
Contacts.............................. 214
Courtesan............................ 214
Courtiers.............................. 214
Debtor................................. 211
Ex-agent.............................. 214
Favors.................................. 211
Hostage............................... 213
House Retainer ................... 215
Illicit Recording................... 213
Indebted Landowner .......... 215
Land Rights......................... 211
Manufactured Goods.......... 212
Old Friendship.................... 211
Politician.............................. 215
Raw Materials...................... 212
Service................................. 211
Stolen File........................... 213
Supply Contract.................. 212
Valuable Item...................... 213
Valuables............................. 211
Assets - Personal...............194
Armor and Dress................. 195
Baradye Pistol..................... 197
Blade................................... 194
Bodkin................................. 194
Cibus Hood ........................ 197
Communication
and Information................ 196
Communinet ...................... 196
Damper, Ixian...................... 196
Dew Collector .................... 197
Emergency Transmitter....... 196
Filmbook............................. 197
Fremkit ............................... 197
Glowglobe.......................... 197
Jubba Cloak........................ 195
Kindjal................................. 194
Krimskel Fiber Rope............ 197
Lasgun................................. 194
Maker Hooks....................... 198
Maula Pistol......................... 194
Melee Weapons.................. 194
Memocorder....................... 197
Palm Lock ........................... 198
Paracompass....................... 198
Poison Snooper................... 198
Probe, Ixian ........................ 199
Pulse-Sword........................ 195
Ranged Weapons................ 194
Ridulian Crystal................... 197
Sapho.................................. 199
Shield.................................. 195
Shield, Personal................... 195
Shield, Semi- ...................... 196
Stillsuit................................. 196
Suspensor, Personal ........... 199
Thumper.............................. 199

Tools and
Personal Equipment ....... 197
Assets - Warfare................200
Anti-grav Platform............... 203
Artillery & Anti-Aircraft........ 204
Artillery................................ 204
Assassin............................... 209
Bunker................................. 201
Carryall................................ 204
Conscript............................. 201
Elite Troop........................... 202
Elite Troops: Fedaykin......... 202
Elite Troops: Sardaukar....... 202
Fortress............................... 201
Heighliner............................ 205
Naval Transport................... 203
Orbital Transport................. 205
Ornithopers & Shields......... 205
Ornithopter......................... 203
Other Vehicles..................... 205
Personnel Carrier................. 203
Rocket/Missile Launcher..... 204
Shield Infantry..................... 201
Shields & Emplacements..... 201
Soldier................................. 201
Specialist............................. 202
Spice Harvester................... 205
Strategic/House Shield....... 201
Transports............................ 203

B.G. to A.G. .............................. 17
Bene Gesserit.........................55
Heightened Observation...... 56
Internal Biochemistry Control	    56
Kwisatz Mother...................... 54
Mother Superior.................... 54
Prana-bindu........................... 56
Reverend Mother.................. 54
The Agony............................. 57
The Missionaria Protectiva	    55
The Sorceresses of Rossak	    55
The Truthsayer’s
Truthtrance........................ 57
Truthsayer.............................. 54
Voice..................................... 56

Drives...........................105, 120
Drive Statements................. 105
Duty..................................... 105
Faith.................................... 105
Justice................................. 105
Power.................................. 105
Truth.................................... 105
Using Drives........................ 226
Dueling......................... 171–173
Actions in Dueling............... 172
Movement........................... 172
Attacks................................ 173
Defeat................................. 173
Targeting Assets.................. 173
Gaining Information............ 173
Eras of Play.............................10

Espionage..................... 177–180
Actions in Espionage.......... 178
Attacks................................ 178
Defeat................................. 179
Gaining Information............ 179
Movement........................... 178
Overcoming an Obstacle.... 179
Example of Play......................... 12
Extended Tasks.....................159
Face Dancers............................. 61
Faction Characters
and Templates.......................109
Bene Gesserit Sister............ 110
Fremen................................ 111
Mentat................................. 111
Spacing Guild Agent........... 112
Suk Doctor.......................... 112
Faith and Religion...................35
Atheism in the Imperium ...... 36
Orange Catholicism.............. 35
The Zensunni ........................ 35
Faufreluches Caste System .18, 37
Focuses.........................103, 119

Character Advancement.......138
Character Creation Summary	   109
CHOAM............................30, 43
The Board of Directors......... 45
Commoners............................... 32
Complications.......................153
Complication Range............ 154
Success at a Cost................ 154
Conflict.................................161
Action Order....................... 165
Aiding an Ally...................... 170
Conflict Basics..................... 164
Conflict Overview................ 167
Conflict Scope..................... 162
Gaining Information............ 169
Overcoming an Obstacle.... 169
Resisting Defeat.................. 168
Zones of Conflict................. 164
Consent & Comfort Levels...... 232
Contests...............................158
Creating Player Characters	   100

Determination......................157

Difficulty...............................145

House Banners and Arms.......... 91
House Creation ......................... 85
House Domains......................... 87
House Enemies.......................... 96
House Traits............................... 91
House Type................................ 86
House Roles............................92
Advisor.................................. 94
Chief Physician...................... 94
Consort ................................ 93
Councilor............................... 94
Envoy.................................... 94
Heir........................................ 94
Marshal.................................. 94
Ruler...................................... 93
Scholar.................................. 95
Spymaster............................. 95
Swordmaster......................... 95
Treasurer................................ 95
Warmaster............................. 95

Momentum...........................151
Bonus Momentum............... 151
Common Uses..................... 152
Spending Momentum......... 151
Saving Momentum.............. 151
Timing Momentum.............. 151

Personal Traits......................102

Houses of the Imperium 	       40
House Atreides.............. 41, 241
House Corino................ 41, 255
House Harkonnen......... 41, 250
Imperium Today......................... 25
Intrigue......................... 184–187
Actions in Intrigue............... 185
Attacks................................ 186
Defeat................................. 186
Gaining Information............ 187
Movement........................... 186
Managing Social
Conflict & Intrigue........... 229
Overcoming an Obstacle.... 187
Kanly.......................................... 96
Landsraad and the
Great Convention...............................28
Landsraad............................ 28, 37
Life Within the Imperium .......... 31
Measure of a Character........... 102

Narrative.................................. 228
Noble Houses ..................... 32, 37
Notable Titans........................... 19
NPCs &
Supporting Characters..........136
Creating NPCs & Supporting
Characters....... 136, 222, 263
Minor Supporting
Characters....................... 137
Notable Supporting
Characters....................... 137
NPCs: Momentum, &
Determination................. 240
Using a Supporting
Character........................ 136
Non-player
Player Characters..........100, 240
Chani Kynes ....................... 261
Duncan Idaho...................... 248
Feyd-Rautha........................ 253

Planets....................................64
Giedi Prime........................... 76
Ix...................................... 42, 77
Ix and Tleilax......................... 42
Junction ................................ 78
Kaitain................................... 78
Poritrin................................... 80
Richese.................................. 81
Salusa Secundus.................... 82
Tleilax ............................. 42, 82
Wallach IX.............................. 83
Planned Character Creation.. 101, 108
Preeminence of Melange.......... 45
Quality (Assets)....................192
Rival Houses.........................296
Agricultural House.............. 304
Artistic/Religious House...... 302
Espionage House................ 298
Military House..................... 297
Technological/Industrial
House.............................. 300
Rules Overview............101, 142
Running a Game...................226
Sandworms ............................... 66

Sapho........................................ 52
Sardaukar .................................. 31
Scenes and Traits..................143
Setting up a Game.................. 224
Shai-Hulud................................. 73
Short Games vs.
Long Term Campaigns....................219
Sietch......................................... 72
Skills.............................102, 119
Battle................................... 102
Communicate...................... 102
Discipline..................... 102, 103
Move................................... 103
Understand.......................... 103
Skill Tests..............................145
Choosing Drives.................. 147
Improving the Odds............ 149
Recovering Drives............... 150
Skill Test Procedure............. 148
Skirmish........................ 174–176
Actions in Skirmish.............. 174
Movement........................... 174
Attacks, Defeat, and
Using Assets.................... 175
Overcoming an Obstacle.... 176
Gaining Information............ 176
Slaves......................................... 32
Smuggling ................................ 48
Space Travel ............................. 50
Space Travel Outside the Guild	      50
Spacing Guild ..................... 30, 47
Spice Melange........................... 29
Stillsuit....................................... 72
Stilltent...................................... 72
Suk Conditioning....................... 59
Suk Doctors............................... 60
Suk Medical School................... 59

(Suk Doctor Talent).......... 128
Improved Resources............ 129
Improvised Weapon............ 129
Intense Study...................... 129
Make Haste......................... 129
Mask of Power..................... 129
Master-at-Arms.................... 129
Masterful Innuendo............. 129
Mentat Discipline
(Mentat Talent)................ 129
Mind Palace
(Mentat Talent)................ 129
Nimble................................ 129
Other Memory
(Bene Gesserit Talent)..... 129
Passive Scrutiny................... 130
Performer............................ 130
Prana-bindu Conditioning
(Bene Gesserit Talent)..... 130
Priority Boarding
(Spacing Guild Talent)..... 130
Putting Theory into Practice.. 130
Ransack............................... 130
Rapid Maneuver.................. 130
Rapid Recovery .................. 130
Resilience (Skill)
Fremen Talent)................ 130
Rigorous Control................. 130
Specialist............................. 130
Stirring Rhetoric.................. 131
Subtle Step.......................... 131
Subtle Words....................... 131
The Reason I Fight (Drive)... 131
The Slow Blade................... 131
To Fight Someone
Is to Know Them (Skill).... 131
Twisted Mentat
(Mentat Talent) ............... 131
Unquestionable Loyalty....... 131
Verify (Mentat Talent).......... 131
Voice
(Bene Gesserit Talent)..... 131

Talents..........................120, 126
Adrenaline Shot
(Suk Doctor Talent).......... 127
Advisor (Skill)....................... 127
Binding Promise.................. 127
Bold (Skill)............................ 127
Bolster................................. 127
Calculated Prediction
(Mentat Talent)................ 127
Cautious (Skill)..................... 127
Collaboration (Skill)............. 127
Combat Medic
(Suk Doctor Talent).......... 127
Constantly Watching........... 127
Cool Under Pressure (Skill).. 127
Decisive Action................... 127
Dedication........................... 128
Deliberate Motion............... 128
Direct................................... 128
Driven.................................. 128
Dual Fealty.......................... 128
Failed Navigator
(Spacing Guild Talent)..... 128
Find Trouble........................ 128
Guildsman
Spacing Guild Talent)...... 128
Hidden Motives................... 128
Hyperawareness
(Bene Gesserit Talent)..... 128
Imperial Conditioning

Thinking Machines .................... 18
Threat...................................155
Adding to Threat................. 155
Spending Threat................. 156
Timeline of Human History	        26
Titans, Notable.......................... 19
Tleilaxu Eyes.............................. 62
Trait......................................123
Troubleshooting...................... 229
Twisted Mentats.................. 53, 61
Unraveling the Past................... 17
Using the Rules System........... 227
Warfare......................... 180–183
Actions in Warfare............... 182
Attacks................................ 182
Defeat................................. 183
Duels and Wars................... 229
Gaining Information............ 183
Managing Conflict,
Movement........................... 182
Overcoming an Obstacle.... 183
War of Assassins........................ 39
War of Assassins and Kanly	     206
Wormsign!............................... 201
Reference Tables..................323

MUH052162
A beautiful 336 page hardback full
colour interior core rulebook, offering
everything you need to create your
own character and noble House to
adventure in the Imperium. Learn to
harness the spice and battle your way
to power.